# None
## `eedcc2e18dc5335eac23bc0fb5377ab7`
`Mr. ALEXANDER â€” 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader.

Mr. President, I would say that last year I thought I had succeeded 
in doing something that no one else had been able to do. I unified 
President Bush and Senator Reid on Iraq in their opposition to our Iraq 
Study Group legislation. But my point is that while I have been one on 
this side of the aisle who wishes the President had taken a different 
tact, I think in all honesty we are talking about how things have 
changed in Iraq.


If we look at the Iraq Study Group recommendations, what were they? 
First, transition of mission. Let's shift our military forces out of 
direct combat and into roles of supporting, training, and equipping 
Iraqi forces as security conditions on the ground permit. That is 
happening. It is happening province by province. That wasn't foreseen 
quite as clearly by the authors of the Iraq Study Group report. I am 
not sure any of us saw it. General Petraeus was wise enough to see it. 
He is helping Iraq have a transition of mission of U.S. forces from 
mainly combat to mainly support, training, and equipping. But the Iraq 
Study Group itself, while it set a goal for that shift of mission, 
explicitly rejected the idea of a deadline. As the Senator from Alabama 
said earlier, it explicitly rejected the idea of a deadline.

The second recommendation of the Iraq Study Group was that we 
maintain a long term, but diminishing, presence in Iraq, with an 
emphasis on diminishing. That is happening. Troops are coming out 
instead of troops going in. Now, they are not coming out as rapidly as 
many had hoped, but they are coming out. They are coming out in the 
spirit of the Iraq Study Group report--not as rapidly as the report 
originally recommended, but as quickly as conditions on the ground will 
now permit. The limited mission the Iraq Study Group envisioned, in 
addition to supporting Iraqi forces, includes protection of coalition 
forces, counterterrorism operations, border security, intelligence-
sharing, supporting provisional reconstruction teams, and search and 
rescue.

Finally, the Iraq Study Group urged that we undertake a new 
diplomatic offensive, that we step up regional and diplomatic efforts 
to press others in the region to help Iraq succeed. Well, that has been 
happening. It may not be happening as rapidly as everyone in the 
Chamber would like, but these efforts are well underway, with a more 
expansive United Nations mission. But higher profile efforts are also 
needed, including by the President.

So I would not stand here and say that the Iraq Study Group 
legislation that Senator Salazar and I introduced--supported by eight 
Democrats and eight Republicans, and which we unsuccessfully urged the 
President and this body to adopt a year ago--I would not say we should 
do that today. But I would say as one Senator that I believe that is 
the direction in which we are moving, and the Iraq Study Group has made 
a significant contribution to that effort. I, frankly, believe the 
bipartisan approach here by those 16 Senators also helped move us in 
that direction.

Now, Senator Feingold's proposal and the Iraq Study Group 
recommendations are at odds. In the first place, the Feingold 
legislation sets a 120-day deadline for changing the mission of our 
forces in Iraq and requiring a massive withdrawal. The bipartisan Iraq 
Study Group specifically opposed such a deadline, saying that 
transition should be, as I said, subject to unexpected developments in 
the security situation on the ground.

The Feingold amendment and the Iraq Study Group differ in another 
way: the continuing mission for the troops. My reading of the Feingold 
bill says that it would prevent American troops from being embedded 
with Iraqi forces, from securing Iraqi borders, from fighting 
terrorists who aren't known to be affiliated with al-Qaida, and 
performing various intelligence operations. Those missions are all 
supported by the Iraq Study Group. It is part of our long term, but 
diminishing, role in Iraq.

As has been noted today, this is not a new subject for the Senate. We 
have had perhaps three dozen votes on Iraq last year. Perhaps we should 
have that many votes. What else is more important than Iraq? But at 
some point, we have come to a conclusion, and I think on the issue of 
the Feingold bill, this body, by a large majority, has already 
expressed itself. There were four previous votes on similar--not 
exactly the same but similar--funding cut and withdrawal proposals 
offered by Senator Feingold. Those were on December 18, 2007, and 71 
Senators voted against that Feingold amendment. Then, on October 3, 
2007, 68 Senators voted against that Feingold amendment. Then, on 
September 20, 2007, 70 Senators voted against that Feingold amendment. 
Then, on May 16, 2007, 67 Senators voted against that Feingold 
amendment.

We have 100 Senators, and 49 of us are Republicans. Not all of us 
agree on Iraq. So that meant that a substantial number of Democrats 
consistently voted against those Feingold amendments.

So I know Senator Feingold is sincere and passionate in his beliefs, 
but it would seem to me that four votes are enough on this subject, 
and--as important as it is--we could turn our attention to other 
issues. But if the majority leader, for whatever reason, feels a need 
to bring this issue to the floor of the Senate, then we are ready to 
talk about it.

We are not all of one mind here, even on the Republican side. We have 
some on this side of the aisle who said when the Iraq Study Group 
report came out that it was a recipe for surrender. I disagreed with 
that and said so publicly and said so privately to the President. He 
was good enough to hear me out one-on-one. I find him to be a very good 
listener.

I, for one, am enormously impressed with General Petraeus's 
counterinsurgency strategy. I, like most of us, have had a chance to go 
to Iraq--in my case, two times to Iraq, and three times to Kuwait. I 
have had a chance last year in August to visit with General Petraeus 
and General Odierno and to go into the outskirts of Baghdad and to see 
an area where our soldiers were in camp and to have dinner with a group


of sheiks. One of the sheiks' sons had been murdered in his front yard, 
and they were fed up with the al-Qaida terrorists and were convinced 
that because the American forces were there, that the Iraqis could risk 
their lives by teaming with the American forces to run the terrorists 
out of town, which in many places they have done.


I still think it would have been better for our troops and it would 
send a clear message to the enemy if we had, as an administration and 
as a Congress, embraced the Iraq Study Group Report because it said 
basically what we are doing today. It said we need to change direction. 
We need to, No. 1, shift our mission, which we are doing. It 
specifically embraced the idea of a surge, if that was necessary. It 
rejected the idea of a specific deadline and said it should be subject 
to developments on the ground. It said we should identify a long-term 
but diminishing presence in Iraq, which we have been doing as a 
country. The Iraq Study Group Report said also that we should step up 
our diplomatic efforts. Its goal--not its binding effect but its goal--
was that all of its recommendations could be accomplished more rapidly 
than has been done. That is true. But at the same time, it recognized 
that it was all subject to security developments on the ground.

So when we have a success--or it may be more accurate to say a series 
of small successes in a difficult arena such as Iraq--when we have 
military leadership such as General Petraeus and his team who have 
stuck to a new counterinsurgency strategy--at least new to Iraq that 
took our forces out of the Green Zone and placed them on the 
outskirts--when we have done that, then I think we ought to recognize 
that for what it is.

I am glad to have this opportunity to talk about Iraq and the 
progress we are making there. I hope we can make more there. I would 
like for more of our Tennesseans to come home. In the National Guard 
alone, we have had more than 10,000 Tennesseans in Iraq, some for a 
year, some twice, some three times. They are our uncles, and they are 
our aunts. They are our neighbors, our deputy sheriffs, the mayor of 
Lexington, the postmaster from Robbinsville. They have mortgages. They 
have kids. Ninety have died, 90 Tennesseans in this period of time. So 
it is good to have this discussion. If the majority leader wants to 
bring it up, we should. But I think at the same time we ought to 
recognize it for what it is. We have changed direction. The troops are 
coming out instead of going in. The mission is shifting. The role is 
diminishing. It will be there for a long time, and the diplomatic 
effort is stepped up. If that is succeeding, then our country is 
succeeding, and we can spend more time on other issues.














 Tornadoes in Tennessee


Now, if I may--I see the Senator from Florida may be wanting to 
speak, and if he would indulge me another 3 or 4 minutes, I wish to 
discuss what has happened in Tennessee with tornadoes in the last 
couple of weeks.

On the night of February 5, tornadoes began to hit Memphis at about 6 
o'clock. While many people were watching the Tennessee-Florida 
basketball game safely in their homes, a tornado touched down in Macon 
County, TN, and stayed on the ground for 21 miles. More than two dozen 
people were killed.

Prior to that, it hit in Jackson, TN, nearly wiping out Union 
University. Fortunately, at Union University, president David Dockery 
had conducted drills, and the students had enough warning to get to the 
safest places in their dormitories, and no one was killed there. That 
was not by accident; it was because of good leadership. It was also 
because of a good early-warning system.

The point of my remarks tonight is that we sometimes hear in 
connection with disasters--particularly since Hurricane Katrina--that 
our disaster response system and our emergency response system isn't as 
good as it should be. I can't speak to every case, but over the last 30 
years, as Governor for some years and in the Cabinet for 2 years and 
now in the Senate, I have seen a lot of disasters and tragedies. I have 
never seen an example where the local officials, the Governor of the 
State, and the President of the United States acted more rapidly, more 
effectively, or more humanely.

The Governor, Gov. Phil Bredesen of Tennessee, a Democrat, was on the 
scene immediately. He gathered all of his information--not too rapidly 
because he knows it needs to be accurate--and he had it to President 
Bush on the night of February 7 at about 7 p.m. By 10 p.m. President 
Bush had approved it--had called the Governor and approved individual 
and public assistance for five of the hardest hit counties. The 
Governor then went on to commit that the State would pay half of the 
local share of the disaster aid that needs to be paid.

I went with the President and Congressman Gordon and Senator Corker 
to the Macon County area on the Friday after it hit. I visited Jackson 
last week. What I found was that FEMA has already received 3,700 
applications from 14 approved counties. FEMA has distributed $1.9 
million in 14 counties. The first small business loan was approved on 
the day I was there.

I visited those whose homes were blown away. It is a terrifying 
thought that in just 60 seconds everything is demolished. You don't 
know where to hide. But I also visited with the emergency responding 
team and a couple whose home was hit in Jackson, TN. They were told via 
the television at 6 o'clock that the tornado was coming, and they were 
told 10 minutes before it hit their house that if they lived on the 
north side of the interstate, the tornado would be there in 10 minutes, 
and it was. That was the kind of early warning system they had. And in 
Macon County, a tornado that hit at 9:30 at night has been anticipated. 
By midnight, FEMA personnel from Atlanta were at the Tennessee border 
at Chattanooga. And by 7 a.m. the next morning, disaster recovery 
centers were set up in Macon County.


I wish to express my admiration, first, for the local officials for 
doing a first-rate job; second, to FEMA and TEMA, the Tennessee 
emergency management professionals who were there on the spot; third, 
to Governor Bredesen who could not have done a better, more thorough, 
more sensitive job; and fourth, to the President and the Washington 
officials who were on the ball.

It is important occasionally to find the good and praise it in 
Government service, and in this case, I believe--well, I know--every 
single person I talked with in the west Tennessee area or the Macon 
County area felt as if the Governor, the President, and the local 
officials were doing everything they could to be helpful, and they were 
deeply grateful for it.

I yield the floor.