---
---

# COMPREHENSIVE AMERICAN ENERGY SECURITY AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT
## `ef2537c620c2bb23be9de542b524f331`
`Mr. BURGESS — 16 September 2008`

---


Mr. BURGESS. It's been a fascinating day, hasn't it?

You have the votes to pass this bill, so congratulations. You'll pass 
it. But the bill is a ghost. It's going over to the Senate. It's dead 
on arrival. It will not do one thing for producing energy and American 
jobs for the American people.

Now, there is almost no mention in this huge bill that we got at 9:45 
last night, almost no mention about new refineries. I think refineries 
were mentioned one time.

Natural gas, I heard my friend from Oklahoma say natural gas is 
included in this bill. It's mentioned less than a half a dozen times. 
There is no title for natural gas in this bill.

Nuclear energy, it's not here. I can't find it.

Now, the polls currently show that faith in Congress, our 
congressional credibility is at an all-time low.

You won an election 2 years ago on the basis of the fact that you're 
going to get us out of Iraq. You didn't do it. You're going to bring 
down gas prices. That didn't work. Most ethical Congress ever. I'm 
afraid not.

And now the last thing was we are not going to drop large bills in 
the middle of the night into this House. We're going to do it the right 
way. Well, I'm afraid that's been lost as well.

Now, why does it matter?

Well, we have a subcommittee. We've had multiple hearings on energy 
over the past 18, 20 months. Mr. Boucher is to be commended for the 
amount of hearings that he's had on this. But we didn't get to mark 
this bill up in subcommittee. Not one amendment came from a Republican 
at any time on this bill. We didn't see this bill in full committee.

Now, there are things that we should do urgently; like we should 
protect our electrical grid in this country, which we're not doing in 
this bill. There's the urgency. Bring that bill to the House floor 
without going through subcommittee and full committee. That, the 
American people would understand.

Well, notwithstanding what the majority leader has just told us, 
Paris Hilton will tell you, this is not rocket surgery. We do need all 
the above. Unfortunately, this bill does not provide that. I urge 
voting against this legislation.