# DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `ef29df0f49172e2f0cebfdb729f21112`
`Mr. DURBIN — 12 December 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, H.R. 3288 is a consolidated appropriations 
bill which contains almost all of the remaining spending bills for the 
fiscal year 2010. This is a process we had not anticipated. We had 
hoped we could take each bill individually and consider them on the 
floor and bring them to conclusion. Unfortunately, we ran out of time.

We had over 90 different efforts made to stop debate on the Senate 
floor on a variety of measures. It took us literally 4 weeks to extend 
unemployment benefits. This is something usually done routinely on a 
bipartisan basis, but unfortunately, because of delays and threats of 
filibusters, it took us 4 weeks to finally come to a vote to extend 
unemployment benefits in the midst of the worst recession the United 
States has experienced in over 75 years. It is unthinkable, at a time 
people were sending us e-mails and letters saying: I can't believe the 
Senate won't provide a helping hand. It isn't as if the bill itself was 
controversial. When it finally came to a vote, it passed 97 to nothing. 
There was no controversy associated with it. The controversy was 
manufactured on the floor of the Senate to delay consideration of such 
a very basic bill for 4 weeks.

Those 4 weeks could have been spent calling up these appropriations 
bills so we could have had what was needed--a healthy, open debate on 
the bills. Instead, we were forced to wait until toward the end of the 
session and consolidate the unpassed bills in one measure and bring it 
to the floor of the Senate today.

I will tell Members of the Senate who wonder if these bills have been 
carefully reviewed that each and every one of them passed 
overwhelmingly from the Appropriations Committee. There was one 
dissenting vote on two or three of these measures, but by and large 
they passed unanimously. There was little controversy in the 
Appropriations Committee from either side of the aisle.

The Senate Appropriations Committee, on which I am honored to serve, 
had been working spring and summer to pass all 12 appropriations bills. 
Chairman Danny Inouye is not only a great America hero, he is a great 
American chairman. As the Senate Appropriations Committee chairman, 
this man has taken up a responsibility which few would shoulder and has 
done it with an extraordinary amount of talent and dedication. At his 
side has been Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, who 
works just as hard to try to make sure what we produce is a great 
credit to this institution and meets the needs of this great country.

There is one bill remaining after these six pass. It may be one of 
the most important--the Defense appropriations bill. It was passed by 
the committee in September and represents the only remaining bill left 
for us to pass this year, which we certainly want to do before we 
adjourn at the end of this period before Christmas.

These bills were reported out of committee with overwhelming 
bipartisan votes. Nine of the 12 were reported unanimously. However, 
when we moved these bills to the floor, we ran into these obstacles. At 
one point when we were considering, for example, the question of 
extending unemployment benefits to millions of Americans who have lost 
their jobs, exhausted their savings, lost their health insurance, and 
stand to lose their homes, there was an argument made by one Senator on 
the other side of the aisle that he didn't want us to call this bill 
until he had a chance to offer another amendment--another amendment on 
the ACORN organization. We have had a series of these amendments. We 
have flogged this group mercilessly for month after weary month. Yet 
they were going to hold up unemployment benefits for this Senator to 
have one more chance, one more swing at this organization. That, to me, 
is not responsible. The responsible thing to do is to recognize all of 
these families who were counting on us.

Time was lost that could have been used not only to provide 
unemployment benefits in a more expeditious manner but also to consider 
these appropriations bills. Appropriations bills in the past, and not 
too distant past, used to take 1 or 2 days before the Senate. Members 
would come to the floor, amendments would be offered, debated, end of 
story. We would have a final vote, and we would move on. Now even 
routine bills with no controversy take weeks because of amendments to 
be offered which, frankly, have little or no relevance to the nature of 
the bill before us.

We brought up the Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations bill on 
October 6. We didn't finish that bill until November 5. This is a 
critically important one, one for which most Members would gladly 
endorse its mission.



These appropriations bills have taken longer because, unfortunately, 
the minority will not agree to reasonable time limits to consider 
amendments and finish debate. Instead, we find ourselves consistently 
sidetracked.

So here we are. We have 21 days before the end of the calendar year, 
and we need to finish the business of the Congress. To do so, we 
engaged Republican Members of the Appropriations Committee and worked 
on reasonable compromises on the differing bills in the House and 
Senate. I am troubled that some of the very Republican Members of the 
Senate Appropriations Committee--not all of them; three of them stood 
up and voted to move this process forward--some of the very Members of 
the Senate Appropriations Committee who have sat through the 
subcommittee hearings, the full committee deliberations, have made 
valuable contributions to the bills themselves, now want to stop the 
process. It makes no sense. If we are going to do this in an orderly 
fashion, we should do it in a bipartisan fashion. I hope that is what 
will happen today.

This package of appropriations bills is a result of a truly bicameral 
and bipartisan effort. It represents the priorities of our Nation. It 
invests in students, veterans, and law enforcement, just to name a few. 
It makes college education more affordable for students by increasing 
Pell grants to $5,500 a year. Is there a better time for us to do that, 
to say to children and families that don't have a lot of money: Now is 
the time to hone your skills, to create new talents in a more 
challenging economy. Go to school. If you will go to school, we will 
help you. This package of bills increases the amount of money available 
for the children in those families. I hope Members on both sides of the 
aisle will support it.

The conference report also helps local governments fight crime and 
put more police on our streets. Take a look at the budgets of cities 
and towns, of counties, of States, and you will realize they are in a 
death struggle to provide basic services. We have increased grants for 
local law enforcement by $480 million over last year. Many of the 
critics of our efforts say: You are spending more money. Yes, we are 
spending more money to keep cops on the street, to keep neighborhoods 
safe so that families feel secure. I think it is money well spent. 
Money spent to help our first responders, firefighters, and policemen 
is a critical investment. This bill makes that investment. That grant 
program was cut by almost $2 billion by the previous administration. We 
are trying to restore that money so we can put more people on the 
street protecting our citizens. This conference report sets the right 
priorities by helping States and local police departments fight crime. 
We also include $298 million for the COPS Program to put more cops on 
the beat. This funding will help hire and retain approximately 1,400 
police officers. The COPS Program has helped train nearly 500,000 law 
enforcement personnel.

The conference report also helps veterans. It is not enough to give 
speeches on the floor about how much we love our men and women in 
uniform and honor our veterans. It is not enough to wear a lapel pin 
and participate in parades and then come to the floor and vote against 
the bills that provide the money for the Veterans' Administration.

What we provide here is increased funding to the Veterans Affairs 
Department of $5.3 billion over last year's level. Those who come and 
criticize the level of spending in this package of bills are 
criticizing the additional investment to help our veterans when we need 
to more than ever. Returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with post-
traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injuries, amputations, these 
men and women need our help. This package of bills provides that help. 
We will provide increased access to quality care for all of our 
veterans. The conference report increases discretionary spending at the 
VA by more than $5 billion to help them care for 6.1 million veterans 
they expect to see in 2010.

If I understood the unanimous consent order, we were equally dividing 
time between now and 9:30. I ask how much time I have remaining on the 
majority side.