---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `ef2da3109fde76635c16c50402380ba0`
`Mr. McCAIN — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Should we leave Iraq before there is a basic level of 
stability, we will invite further Iranian influence at a time when 
Iranian operatives are already moving weapons, training fighters, 
providing resources and helping plan operations to


kill American soldiers and damage our efforts to bring stability to 
Iraq.

Iran will comfortably step into the power vacuum left by a U.S. 
withdrawal, and such an aggrandizement of fundamentalist power has 
great potential to spark greater Sunni-Shia conflict across the region.

Leaving prematurely would induce Iraq's neighbors, including Saudi 
Arabia and Jordan, Egypt and Israel, Turkey and others, to feel their 
own security eroding and may well induce them to act in ways that 
prompt wider instability. The potential for genocide, wider war, 
spiralling oil prices, and the perception of strategic American defeat 
is real.

This fight is about Iraq but not about Iraq alone. It is greater than 
that and, more important still, about whether America still has the 
political courage to fight for victory or whether we will settle for 
defeat, with all the terrible things that accompany it. We cannot walk 
away gracefully from defeat in this war.

General Petraeus and his commanders believe they have a strategy that 
can, over time, lead to success in Iraq. General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Ryan Crocker will come to Washington in September to report 
on the status of their efforts and those of the Iraqis. They ask two 
things of us: the time necessary to see whether their efforts can 
succeed and the political courage to support them in their work. I 
believe we should give them both.

I know that Senators are tired of this war, tired of the mounting 
death toll, tired of the many mistakes we have made in this war and the 
great effort it requires to reverse them, tired of the war's 
politicization and the degree to which it has become embroiled in 
partisan struggles and election strategies. I understand this fatigue. 
Yet I maintain that we, as elected leaders with a duty to our people 
and the security of their Nation, cannot let fatigue dictate our 
policies.

The soldiers I met last week have no illusions about the sacrifices 
necessary to achieve their mission. On July 4, I had the great 
privilege to be present as 588 troops reenlisted in the military and 
another 161 were naturalized as U.S. citizens. Tragically, two of those 
who were scheduled to be naturalized as U.S. citizens were killed very 
shortly before the ceremony.

Those men and women taking the oaths of enlistment and citizenship in 
the center of Saddam's al Faw Palace, they understand the many 
hardships made in our name. They have completed tour after tour away 
from their families, risking everything, everything for the security of 
this country. They do so because they understand the circumstances 
that, however great the costs of this war, the costs are immeasurably 
greater still if we abandon it prematurely. All they ask is that we 
support them in their noble mission.

I wish we had planned to fight this war correctly the first time. But 
we can no more turn back the clock to 2003 than we can wish away the 
consequences of defeat by imposing some artificial deadline for 
withdrawal. Last week in Iraq, I met the bravest men and women our 
country has to offer, and not one of them told me it was time to go or 
that the cause is lost.

They are frustrated with the Iraqi Government's lack of progress. 
They are buffeted by the winds of partisanship in Washington, talking 
today of surges and tomorrow of withdrawal, voting to confirm General 
Petraeus and then voting for a course that guarantees defeat. But in 
the end, they know the war in Iraq is part of a larger struggle, a war 
of moderation and stability against the forces of violence and 
extremism.

They recognize that if we simply pack up and leave, the war does not 
end--it merely gets harder.

Finally, I would like to give a couple of quotes. General Lynch, who 
is the third ID commander of the U.S. forces, says:




 Pulling out before the mission was accomplished would be a 


 mess. We find the enemy regaining ground, reestablishing 


 sanctuaries, building more IEDs and the violence would 


 escalate.


GEN Anthony Zinni, one of my particular heroes, who opposed the war 
in Iraq, said:




 . . . that we cannot simply pull out of Iraq, as much as we 


 may want to. The consequences of a destabilized and chaotic 


 Iraq, sitting in the center of a critical region of the 


 world, could have catastrophic implications. . . .There is no 


 short-term solution. It will take years to stabilize Iraq. 


 How many? I believe at least five to seven.


In the Baker Hamilton report, there is a lot of selective quoting. 
But I would like to point out that they said:




 Because of the importance of Iraq, the potential for 


 catastrophe in the role and the commitments of the United 


 States in initiating events that have led to the current 


 situation, we believe it would be wrong for the United States 


 to abandon the country through a precipitous withdrawal of 


 troops and support. A premature American departure from Iraq 


 would almost certainly produce greater sectarian violence and 


 further deterioration of conditions, leading to a number of 


 adverse consequences outlined above. The near-term results 


 would be a significant power vacuum, greater human suffering, 


 regional destabilization, and a threat to the global economy. 


 Al-Qaeda would depict our withdrawal as a historic victory. 


 If we leave and Iraq descends into chaos, the long-range 


 consequences could eventually require the United States to 


 return.


That is page 30 of the Iraq Study Group report.

Finally, I understand, I believe very well, how difficult this issue 
is for many of our Members. I know the sorrow and the frustration that 
they and their constituents feel. If I knew a great option as to how we 
could preserve our Nation's security and withdraw and stop the 
unfortunate casualties that are incurred by these brave young people, I 
would embrace it tomorrow.

Part of this debate is going to be proposals that people have made 
about how we can best leave. I intend to engage in vigorous discussion 
and debate. I would like to again begin this debate by pointing out I 
respect the views of my colleagues on this issue.

I understand their frustration. I intend to be respectful of their 
views, and I hope we can have a debate and discussion on this issue, as 
we consider various amendments, that will better inform the American 
people of both points of view. I hope over time somehow we can find a 
way to come together in this body and in this Nation because this war 
has divided this Nation in the most terrible way.

I saw it once before. I saw it once before, a long time ago, and I 
saw a defeated military, and I saw how long it took a military that was 
defeated to recover. I saw a divided nation beset by assassinations and 
riots and a breakdown in a civil society. That is why we need, in my 
view, to try to come together--and I do not know how we do that--
beginning with respecting each other's views so we can come together 
and hopefully end the tragedy of Iraq and at the same time ensure 
America's security.

I will be saying a lot more on this issue as we continue the debate. 
I say again, I respect the views of my colleagues. Then, finally, I 
again pay my compliments to the distinguished chairman of the 
committee, who put together, as is his wont, a bipartisan package that 
will ensure our Nation's security in the future, as exemplified again 
by a unanimous vote of the committee in reporting out the Defense 
authorization bill.

I yield the floor.