---
---

# EXTENDING ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON MINORITY VETERANS
## `ef2d586457d923424d2cbb79d0a63a5a`
`Mr. GUTIERREZ — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. GUTIERREZ. I rise today to urge my colleagues to support H.R. 
674, legislation to make the Advisory Committee on Minority Veterans 
permanent. I have sponsored this legislation along with Congresswoman 
Corrine Brown, who serves on the Veterans' Affairs Committee. Current 
law mandates the termination of the Advisory Committee on Minority 
Veterans (ACMV) on December 31, 2009. This bill would simply repeal the 
provision of law that sunsets this important committee so that its 
critical work on behalf of minority veterans can continue.

The Advisory Committee on Minority Veterans operates in conjunction 
with the VA Center for Minority Veterans. This committee consists of 
members appointed by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and includes 
minority veterans, representatives of minority veterans groups and 
individuals who are recognized authorities in fields pertinent to the 
needs of minority veterans.

The Advisory Committee on Minority Veterans helps the VA Center for 
Minority Veterans by advising the Secretary on the adoption and 
implementation of policies and programs affecting minority veterans, 
and by making recommendations to the VA for the establishment or 
improvement of programs in the department for which minority veterans 
are eligible.

The Committee has consistently provided the VA and Congress with 
balanced, forward-looking recommendations, many of which go far beyond 
the unique needs of minority veterans. In 2002, the Committee met in my 
hometown of Chicago and warned that in the Chicago regional office, 
''it was mentioned that it was much easier to deny benefits than to 
grant benefits because of stringent requirements of the Veterans 
Benefits Administration and the Court of Appeal for Veterans Claims.''

The Chicago Sun-Times later exposed that Illinois veterans ranked 
50th in disability benefit compensation. That information' sparked a 
campaign by the Illinois Congressional Delegation to rectify the 
situation. Since then, the VA Inspector General has issued his report 
and recommendations, and the Secretary has pledged additional staff and 
resources to the Chicago regional office.

The Committee will also be needed in the future since the unique 
concerns of minority veterans will become increasingly important for 
our nation over the next decade.

Currently, 17 percent of the troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan 
are African-American, while 11 percent are Hispanic. The concerns of 
these veterans and others will not disappear on December 31, 2009, nor 
should the Committee that represents them. The Advisory Committee on 
Minority Veterans has helped our minority veterans from past wars with 
programs to address their concerns. We should not shortchange our newly 
returning soldiers by allowing this Committee's tenure to expire.

Many specific issues of concern to minority veterans need to be 
addressed further. Minority veterans confront the debilitating effects 
of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and substance abuse in greater 
numbers. Minority veterans suffer from a higher incidence of 
homelessness. Access to health care for Native American veterans is 
also a common problem. In addition, access to adequate job training is 
a difficulty for many minority veterans, a high percentage of whom 
qualify as low-income, category A veterans.

Unfortunately, discrimination and cultural insensitivity remain 
problematic for minority veterans at many VA facilities. The Advisory 
Committee on Minority Veterans still has a lot of work to do, and I 
urge my colleagues to support this legislation to make this important 
Committee permanent.