---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ef2e430d01a9586c5513f6c76824714e`
`Mr. CAPUANO — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. CAPUANO. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I don't have prepared remarks. I have been listening 
to this debate for the last couple of days, and everything that can be 
said on both sides has been said repeatedly. And thus far the only 
thoughtful argument I have heard to not vote for this resolution is 
that somehow it will demoralize the troops. That pretends that the 
troops live in a bubble and don't know what is going on and just never 
think. Everybody who has done any discussions or any polling of the 
troops know they already know that this war is over. It's not a 
military defeat. To put it that way is ridiculous. No one can defeat 
our military. It is absolutely undefeatable. It is a political defeat. 
We cannot win, which I am not even sure what that means, this war. This 
escalation will do nothing but delay the inevitable. America knows it.



To listen to the discussion I have heard in the last couple of days, 
all I can say to myself, if we had this attitude in the seventies, we 
would still be in Vietnam. For what? For what? We have done what we 
could do, and we may have to go back someday, and I may vote for it 
under the right circumstances. To never say never is ridiculous. We 
don't know where the cards are going to be played. We do know one 
thing: that today Iraq is engaged in a civil war. One of the leaders of 
that civil war isn't even in Iraq. He is in Iran. We are only delaying 
the inevitable at the cost of our young men and women. And I am not 
talking about money, because if this was the right war, a moral war, 
money wouldn't be the issue.

This war is over. We need to recognize that. We need to stop trying 
to play politics with it. Bring our troops home and prepare them for 
the next battle that we might all join in if it's the right place and 
the right time.