# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `ef3d2eb52239e05a195fd6283359a0fe`
`Mr. DINGELL â€” 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Chairman, today the House will consider H. Con. Res. 
99, the House Budget Resolution. I rise in support of this budget 
resolution because it fulfills the pledge Democrats made when we 
regained the majority. I am pleased to say that the Democrats have 
delivered on their word--the proposed Democratic plan will balance the 
budget in 5 years, while ensuring that critical programs are fully 
funded and that the programs dearest to our families are fully funded. 
The Democratic budget will expand health care for our children; provide 
our soldiers and veterans with care worthy of their sacrifice; support 
education for a 21st century workforce and a growing economy; invest in 
renewable energy; and restore fiscal responsibility to the budget 
process.

When President Bush was elected, he inherited a budget surplus of 
$5.6 trillion. Yet by the end of his first term, the Bush 
Administration turned this surplus into a deficit of nearly $3 
trillion. Instead of addressing this deficit, the President's budget 
increases our deficit by $507 billion over the next 5 years. In 
comparison, the Democratic budget will lower the deficit by $234 
billion over the next 5 years using the newly resurrected pay-as-you-go 
rules.

We will also work to lower the deficit by putting an end to wasteful 
government spending through increased oversight over our government 
agencies, starting with the Defense Department. To date the Defense 
Department continues to fail a standard audit that tracks what it 
spends or owns in the annual budget. It is estimated by Defense 
auditors that one of every six dollars spent for Iraq is suspect--
including $2.7 billion Halliburton has received in contracts. This 
budget resolution proposes to restore government program performance 
reviews instituted under the Clinton Administration, which produced 285 
recommendations to improve government services.

I know that many back home are skeptical about whether this will help 
the working families in Michigan. Michigan has a troubled economy; its 
unemployment rate is 6.9 percent and family incomes have dropped $7,989 
since 2000, while health care and energy costs continue to rise. Yet 
the President's budget proposes to eliminate $205 million in funding 
for job training and employment services in our state. This is funding 
that Michigan desperately needs to keep our workforce competitive.

One of the first steps we can take to repair our economy is to invest 
in our future workforce. Our budget meets the goals of the Democratic 
Innovation Agenda by providing an additional $2 billion for federal 
science and technology programs, putting us on the road to doubling 
funding for the National Science Foundation. These investments are 
necessary to maintain America's global competitiveness, particularly in 
the areas of technology, energy and innovation.

We are going to make sure that our children receive the best 
education possible; our budget provides $8 billion more in 2008 and 
over 11 percent more over the next 5 years for education and training 
programs. Under the President's budget, more than 120,000 children in 
Michigan would go without promised help in reading and math. Head 
Start--a vital program for more than 35,000 Michigan children--would be 
cut by the President by 1.5 percent. These programs provide critical 
services for nearly 1.8 million children enrolled in Michigan public 
schools.


The Democratic budget also supports middle-class tax cuts, which will 
put money back in the wallets of our families where it belongs. It will 
also protect middle-income families from a tax increase by setting up a 
reserve fund for a long-term fix for the alternative minimum tax, AMT. 
In 2004, 69,000 Michigan families were subject to the AMT and if this 
system is not adjusted for inflation, an estimated 507,000 families in 
Michigan will have to pay it in 2007. Without this fix, the President's 
budget would increase middle-income taxes by $230 billion. I know many 
are wondering how we will actually pay for the middle-class tax cut. We 
will pay for this by eliminating tax loopholes and closing the tax gap 
to make sure that those who are cheating the system pay up and those 
who are honest are rewarded.

In recent months, energy costs have skyrocketed, literally leaving 
many Michigan families in the cold. Gasoline prices in Michigan have 
increased 79 percent, up $1.12 a gallon since 2001. While the President 
travels the country promoting his renewable energy programs, his budget 
proposes holding funding for renewable energy and energy efficiency 
programs at the 2001 funding level, and cutting the Low-Income Home 
Energy Assistance Program, LIHEAP, by 18 percent. It is obvious that we 
need to end America's addiction to foreign oil and begin to invest in 
renewable energy sources here at home. The Democratic budget rejects 
the proposed cut to LIHEAP and will create a reserve fund that will 
redirect oil subsidies to invest $14 billion over the next 10 years in 
clean, renewable alternative energy and energy efficiency programs. 
This investment will promote new technologies to lower energy costs and 
relieve families of this immense burden.

The Democratic budget rejects the President's proposal to cut the 
Community Development Block Grant program, and actually provides the 
first increase in funding for the Community Development Block Grant 
program. This program provides crucial funding to assist nearly 1,200 
States and local governments with job creation, economic development 
and affordable housing efforts.

Not only does this budget recognize the needs of working families, it 
will also recognize the needs of our veterans. It is clear from the 
recent events at Walter Reed Army Medical Center that Congress needs to 
closely examine the health care that veterans are receiving. Veterans 
have sacrificed too much to come home to run-down health care 
facilities. We will make sure that our veterans will always have the 
best care available by providing the largest increase ever to the 
veterans' health care budget--$3.5 billion this year and $32 billion 
over the next 5 years. These resources are critical to help repair VA 
health care facilities, to increase and improve disability claims 
processing and to invest in mental health care and treatment for 
traumatic brain injury. Michigan is home to 836,948 veterans, 42,451 of 
whom recently returned from Afghanistan and Iraq. We need to let our 
soldiers know that they will not be forgotten after their service is 
completed.

The Democratic budget will ensure that our soldiers have the 
resources they need in Iraq and Afghanistan, and that our first 
responders and law enforcement officers here at home are equipped with 
what they need to protect our country. Under the administration's 
proposed budget, Michigan would be hit with a 52-percent cut in the 
State Homeland Security Grant Program and the Law Enforcement Terrorist 
Prevention Program would be eliminated completely. The President needs 
to heed his own advice and fully fund these programs to ensure the 
safety and security of our communities. The Democratic budget will 
increase homeland security funding by six percent, ensuring that our 
first responder and terrorism prevention programs have the resources 
they need.

After 6 years of irresponsible fiscal budgets and empty promises, 
today's resolution will take the first step to finally balancing our 
budget and delivering critical funding to programs that need it the 
most. I support this resolution and I urge my colleagues to vote yes on 
H. Con. Res. 99.