---
---

# RECOGNIZING EFFORTS OF WELCOME BACK VETERANS
## `ef406b0931ad235339faf907c90e5e0d`
`Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana — 8 December 2010`

---


Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, before I talk about the importance of the resolution 
before us today, I want to thank the Committee on Armed Services for 
working with us to bring this resolution to the floor and would ask 
that the exchange of letters waiving jurisdiction between the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services be inserted 
into the Congressional Record.

Mr. Speaker, we are all aware that post-traumatic stress disorder, 
PTSD, is one of the signature wounds of Operation New Dawn and 
Operation Enduring Freedom. Countless reports and studies bear out this 
statement. Most significantly, a 2008 study released by the RAND 
Corporation reported that one in five veterans of the wars in Iraq or 
Afghanistan are suffering from PTSD. Studies by other experts and by 
the VA itself demonstrate how widespread and serious PTSD is; and as 
more servicemembers return home, the problem will only grow larger.

VA has made important strides in the treatment of PTSD. They boast 
providers throughout the Nation who offer excellent care for PTSD and 
researchers who have found innovative, ground-breaking new treatments 
as well. But VA cannot combat PTSD alone. Dedicated advocates and 
organizations throughout the country are committed to doing their part 
to help provide care for our veterans.

Welcome Back Veterans has answered this call to service. The 
partnership between Major League Baseball, the McCormick Foundation, 
the Entertainment Industry Foundation and the university hospitals at 
Weill Cornell, the University of Michigan, Stanford University, and the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology have already made tremendous 
accomplishments on behalf of our veterans.

They have raised over $15 million for PTSD treatment and research and 
are working closely with hospitals in Massachusetts, New York, 
Michigan, and California to help provide care to over 5,000 
servicemembers. But for all the great things that Welcome Back Veterans 
has accomplished, I know they are poised to do so much more. They are 
continuing to work hard to care for our veterans, and I look forward to 
watching them continue with these efforts.



Welcome Back Veterans deserves our formal recognition for the great 
work they have done. I urge you to join me in offering my gratitude to 
Welcome Back Veterans by supporting House Resolution 1746.





 House Committee on Armed Services, House of 





 Representatives,
















 Washington, DC, December 7, 2010.


 Hon. Bob Filner,


 Chairman, Committee on Veterans' Affairs, House of 




 Representatives, Washington, DC.



 Dear Chairman Filner: I am writing to you concerning H. 


 Res. 1746, recognizing and supporting the efforts of Welcome 


 Back Veterans to augment the services provided by the 


 Departments of Defense and Veterans' Affairs in providing 


 timely and world-class care for veterans and members of the 


 Armed Forces suffering from PTSD and related psychiatric 


 disorders. This measure was referred to the Committee on 


 Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 


 Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 


 Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 


 fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.



 Our committee recognizes the importance of H. Res. 1746, 


 and the need for the resolution to move expeditiously. 


 Therefore, while we have a valid claim to jurisdiction over 


 this legislation, the Committee on Armed Services will waive 


 further consideration of H. Res. 1746. I do so with the 


 understanding that by waiving consideration of the 


 resolution, the Committee on Armed Services does not waive 


 any future jurisdictional claim over the subject matters 


 contained in the resolution which fall within its Rule X 


 jurisdiction.



 Please place this letter and a copy of your response into 


 the Congressional Record during consideration of the measure 


 on the House floor. Thank you for the cooperative spirit in 


 which you have worked regarding this matter and others 


 between our respective committees.





 Very truly yours,



























Ike Skelton,


 Chairman.