---
---

# UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUESTS
## `ef4ba7742a540b85926fa1876f8a8a86`
`Mr. STEVENS — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I have not been here as long as my good 
friend from West Virginia, but I am the senior Member of this side. I 
cannot remember a time when we tied together the concept of filing a 
first-degree amendment, then a second-degree amendment, with cloture so 
it entirely shut off any participation by the minority. It has been 
stated here it has happened. I do not recall that. I do recall back in 
the days of the Clinton administration, Senator Byrd had a proposal, a 
similar proposal, but we had a big ruckus. I am sure the Senator 
remembers. Senator Dole was our minority leader then.

This is a defining moment for the Senate. Because as the Senator from 
Pennsylvania has indicated, if the majority of one can go to the House 
and negotiate a bill and bring it back and there are not going to be 
any amendments, we are going to file a first-degree amendment, a 
second-degree amendment, and have cloture or else--the Senate is 
totally irrelevant.

Having been in the minority and in the majority, I think the majority 
ought to think twice. There is only one vote difference here right now, 
two votes when our good friend from South Dakota comes back. But as a 
practical matter, the rights of the minority--really the whole 
country--depend upon the minority in the Senate having an opportunity 
to voice some of the concerns about what has happened in the House.

I say, in all sincerity, this is a defining moment. I believe the 
message we are trying to send on this Iraq resolution is wrong. I think 
it is harming the people who represent us in Iraq and Afghanistan. Even 
Afghanistan is coming back. We are going to have to send a new group, 
the 175th, over there to deal with al-Qaida in Afghanistan, again.

Our people need support, and we need to be able to articulate the 
reasons why we support them. If we follow the outline of the majority 
leader, we will not have that chance except by talking and talking. But 
no amendments.

It is not right. It is not the Senate. I do not intend to stand by 
and see the


Senate lose its role under the Constitution to be the second House of 
the Congress. This is not a rubberstamp for the House. That is what we 
will be if we follow the intention of the majority leader now.