# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `ef4fae15b7a11b26f1ead820340d3d10`
`Mr. GRAHAM â€” 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, this is billed as an unusual Saturday 
session where the Senate is working on Saturday. I argue we are not 
working, we are having a political, theatrical debate that does more 
harm than good. There are a lot of people working on Saturday; not us. 
We are trying to jockey for political positioning among ourselves and 
for 2008. Yet there are people working in Baghdad and Iraq, trying to 
secure our future against the most violent extremists on the face of 
the Earth.

To my good friend Senator Nelson, if you think we are in the middle 
of a civil war, cut off funding. If you believe half of what you are 
saying in these resolutions, then have the courage of your convictions 
to stop this war by cutting off funding. But, no, no one wants to do 
that because they do not know how that will play out at home. Everybody 
is trying to hedge their bets a little bit, bashing this new effort to 
secure victory, wanting to be seen in history, I guess, or for the next 
election, that this was not my idea, this was Bush's fault. Bush is not 
going to


Iraq; 21,500 brave young men and women are going to Iraq behind a 
general who believes he can win.

This is a low point in my time in the Senate.

Senator Reid said a few weeks ago, Republicans can't run and hide 
from this debate. Well, I am here. I am not running and hiding from any 
idea any Senator has. I am not running and hiding from Senator Warner's 
resolution. I look forward to voting against it and talking about how 
ill-conceived it is. All I am asking for is a chance for the Senate to 
play its role in our democracy and not become the House. All I am 
asking of my fellow colleagues who are certain they are right and want 
to send a message to our President is they give the courtesy to the 
others, such as myself, who believe they are dead wrong. And let's have 
a vote that reflects where the Senate is and not become the House.

What is the Senate? In the Senate you have to get 60 votes to move an 
idea forward. Do you want to abandon that because of the political 
moment? I don't. Do you want to abandon your colleagues who have a 
different view of what we should do? I don't. I have been there on an 
emotional issue called immigration. There was an effort to shut down 
debate. I, along with Senator John McCain and several other Senators 
who were very much for a comprehensive immigration reform, told critics 
within our caucus, we will not leave you behind.


I am extremely disappointed in our colleagues who want to shut off 
debate, not understanding whether people such as myself and Senator 
Gregg will be left behind. I am not afraid of your ideas. I respect the 
differences we have. I am extremely disappointed you will throw us 
over. That is not what the Senate is about. The Senate is about a 
debate on a full range of ideas that shows a difference from the House.

Here is the crux of the matter: The reason we are here on a Saturday 
playing stupid political games while people are over in Iraq trying to 
win this war is because our colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
are afraid to take a vote on cutting off funding. I believe what 
happened in the House in a nonbinding fashion is the worst possible 
situation for this Congress, but it is a precursor to a movement toward 
bleeding this war dry in terms of funds and cutting off funding. If I 
am wrong, then let's have a vote on cutting off funding.

The reason we are not going to have a vote on the Judd Gregg 
resolution, which is a legitimate position, is because 70-plus Senators 
will vote for it. The overwhelming majority of this Senate understands 
that cutting off funding at this crucial time in the war on terror in 
Iraq is ill-advised, but they don't want to be on the record. The 
reason they don't want to be on the record is because the radical left 
will eat Democrat 2008 hopefuls' lunch. They will create a fight on 
that side of monumental proportions between the radical left and the 
bloggers of the left who want to get out yesterday. That is why we are 
having a truncated debate.

If Members do believe we are in the middle of a civil war, take the 
floor and get people out of the middle of the civil war.

This is the politics of abandonment. This is abandoning the role the 
Senate has played for generations, to make our country stronger, not 
weaker. This is abandoning colleagues with contrary ideas who are going 
to be cut off. Unfortunately, these nonbinding resolutions abandon 
those who are going to the fight voluntarily.

This is a very sad Saturday for the Senate, on the heels of a 
disaster in the House where a majority, a bare majority of the House, 
wants to send a political message at a time of war that does not keep 
one person from being shot at.

I don't know where this thing is going to go. I don't know how it is 
going to end, but I can promise this: As long as I am in the Senate, I 
am going to take this Senate and make sure the Senate acts like the 
Senate. I came to the Senate for a reason. I want to be part of great 
debates. The way this process will be structured is Members will get 
cut out. Judd Gregg will get cut out because of the politics of the 
moment. The 60-vote rule will have meaning in this debate as long as I 
am here. I hope my colleagues will understand whatever differences we 
have, no matter how sincere they are, please don't throw us over.

At this moment in time, I will read another resolution of sorts. This 
is from General Petraeus. He is addressing the coalition forces:




 To the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Civilians of 


 Multi-National Force--Iraq:



 We serve in Iraq at a critical time. The war here will soon 


 enter its fifth year. A decisive moment approaches. Shoulder-


 to-shoulder with our Iraqi comrades, we will conduct a 


 pivotal campaign to improve security for the Iraqi people. 


 The stakes could not be higher.



 Our task is crucial. Security is essential for Iraq to 


 build its future. Only with security can the Iraqi government 


 come to grips with the tough issues it confronts and develop 


 the capacity to serve its citizens. The hopes of the Iraqi 


 people and the coalition countries are with us.



 The enemies of Iraq will shrink at no act, however 


 barbaric. They will do all they can to shake the confidence 


 of the people and to convince the world that this effort is 


 doomed. We must not underestimate them.



 Together with our Iraqi partners, we must defeat those who 


 oppose the new Iraq. We cannot allow mass murderers to hold 


 the initiative. We must strike them relentlessly. We and our 


 Iraqi partners must set the terms of the struggle, not our 


 enemies. And together we must prevail.



 The way ahead will not be easy. There will be difficult 


 times in the months to come. But hard is not hopeless, and we 


 must remain steadfast in our effort to help improve security 


 for the Iraqi people. I am confident that each of you will 


 fight with skill and courage, and that you will remain loyal 


 to your comrades-in-arms and to the values our nations hold 


 so dear.



 In the end, Iraqis will decide the outcome of this 


 struggle. Our task is to help them gain the time they need to 


 save their country. To do that, many of us will live and 


 fight alongside them. Together, we will face down the 


 terrorists, insurgents, and criminals who slaughter the 


 innocent. Success will require discipline, fortitude, and 


 initiative--qualities that you have in abundance.


Do we have those qualities in Congress?




 I appreciate your sacrifices and those of your families. 


 Now, more than ever, your commitment to service and your 


 skill can make the difference between victory and defeat in a 


 very tough mission.



 It is an honor to soldier again with the members of the 


 Multi-National Force--Iraq. I know that wherever you serve in 


 this undertaking you will give your all. In turn, I pledge my 


 commitment to our mission and every effort to achieve success 


 as we help the Iraqis chart a course to a brighter future.



 Godspeed to each of you and to our Iraqi comrades in this 


 crucial endeavor.


I end with this thought: If Members believe this is a lost cause and 
victory cannot be achieved, that our people are in the middle of a 
mess, a civil war, and not one person should get injured or killed 
because we have made huge mistakes that cannot be turned around, then 
cut off funding. Have a vote on something that matters. This political 
theater empowers our enemy, disheartens our own troops, is not worthy 
of the Senate time, and it has never been done in history for a reason.

I yield the floor.