# IRAQ
## `ef599a604aa26a39cd28cc4f38b2c997`
`Mr. ROBERTS — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROBERTS. As I indicated, Mr. President, we have not discussed the 
difficult policy decisions that will confront us if it becomes 
necessary to withdraw or redeploy, what that mission would be, or even 
how to withdraw. The reality is what we will do when certain 
consequences would take place. These are the possible, if not probable, 
consequences we should be confronting and debating and explaining to 
the American people and ourselves and in the media, even if some may 
have a deaf ear.

First. A dramatic increase in sectarian violence quickly escalating 
to a civil war--and I mean a real civil war--and a humanitarian 
disaster far more devastating than what is happening now. Shia versus 
Shia, Shia versus Sunni. What do we do? Thousands of Iraqis have 
already become refugees and left the country.

Second. Given a civil war and struggle for control, we can expect an 
incursion of Sunni troops from other Mideast countries--I want to make 
it very clear about that: other Mideast countries--to prevent an 
Iranian takeover of Iraq and the very real possibility of an Iraq led 
by Muqtada al-Sadr, whose street appeal could endanger their own 
Governments. I am talking about other Mideast countries. When that 
happens, the war becomes regional. What do we do?

Third. We can expect an Iraq certainly dominated by Iran, thus 
completing a Shia crescent with Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Lebanon. Today, 
countries such as Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Egypt are talking about 
building their own nuclear programs, given Iran's nuclear ambitions and 
progress. Iran has just refused inspectors from the IAEA. With the 
possibility of Shia Muslims and Sunni Muslims each working to achieve 
nuclear capability and weapons, what does Israel do? What do we do?

Fourth. Iraq will become a safe haven for terrorists. This time it is 
for real. What do we do?

Fifth. In their eyes, with the defeat of the ''Great Satan'' only 
months away, as expected--a clear signal by this body and perhaps 
inevitable--terrorists around the world are already emboldened, waiting 
us out and planning more attacks; that is, if you believe what they 
say.


Read Afghanistan and the Taliban and the spring offensive. Will we 
soon be in the business of passing nonbinding resolutions about 
Afghanistan?

Sixth. We can expect a perceived, if not real, lack of American 
resolve in the eyes of adversaries and potential adversaries around the 
world resulting in additional national security threats.

Read Putin and Belarus and Iran, and his recent remarkable speech at 
Munich in Germany at the NATO security conference. Kim Jong Il. We are 
making some progress with North Korea right now, but he does have a 
penchant for missile launches on the 4th of July.

Read Hugo Chavez--31 countries in the southern command. He is the new 
Castro, nationalizing his oil production and directly involved in five 
different countries. What do we do?

The point is that globally and over the long term this is not a Bush 
issue or a Democratic or a Republican issue, or even how you feel about 
Iraq or the war. Even as we argue about whether we debate and vote on 
one resolution or three or four, I hope, there are terrorist 
organizations and their second-generation affiliates--guided and 
inspired--are plotting attacks against the United States and throughout 
the world. It is obvious we can't sustain the status quo in Iraq, but 
while we debate on how to proceed, these folks are not giving up.

The irony is that should the President wake up in the morning and 
say, well, the House has voted for this resolution, they are not for 
this new mission, and the Senate is about to, and they may or may not 
do that, so I am going to terminate it, I am going to end it, then we 
are back to square one, back to a stalemate, back to the status quo. 
That, to me, doesn't make sense.

Given the fact there were at least five successful attacks that 
killed Americans--and others that, thank goodness, were not 
successful--before President Bush came to office and before military 
action in Iraq--given the fact this threat will face the next President 
and future world leaders, surely we can figure out it makes no sense to 
fight each other when the terrorists then and now and in the future do 
not kill according to party affiliation, nationality, race, age, or 
gender.

We do not need a Republican approach to national security and the 
war. We do not need a Democratic approach to national security and the 
war. We need, however, an American approach to our national security 
and the war and to our individual freedoms. This is a time to engage in 
honest dialog, to work together and think through and agree on the 
strategy that will defeat our enemies and make the American people 
safe. And yes, bring our troops home but in a way that we don't have to 
send them back.

So I say to the leadership, with all due respect, let us end this 
nonbinding business and get these confetti resolutions behind us. We 
have all had a chance now to discuss the war and we need to vote on I 
think at least four resolutions, and then come together with a 
bipartisan commitment--a difficult and perhaps impossible task but, I 
believe, a task that must be undertaken for the sake of our national 
security.

Mr. President, I yield back the balance of my time and I thank my 
colleagues across the aisle for permitting me to finish my remarks.