---
---

# IN REMEMBRANCE OF SERGEANT MAJOR JOSEPH J. ELLIS
## `ef5c18570f31ca5425a97c832b322770`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the extraordinary 
life and achievements of Sergeant Major Joseph J. Ellis, the true 
definition of an American hero. Throughout his life, Sergeant Major 
Ellis displayed the highest qualities of sacrifice, patriotism, and 
service.

Sgt. Maj. Ellis enlisted in the Marines in 1984 and moved up in rank, 
mostly in reconnaissance units, and trained as a radio operator. In 
1985, he was elevated to the rank of corporal and, 2 years later, 
joined the 3rd Reconnaissance Battalion in Okinawa, Japan, where he 
served as team communicator and radio supervisor in the battalion 
communications platoon. Later Ellis was called to Camp Pendleton, 
California for duty with the School of Infantry, and served as radio 
supervisor in the communications platoon.

When his country needed his service, Ellis answered the call and was 
deployed to Saudi Arabia with the 1st Force Reconnaissance Company from 
Camp Pendleton in 1990 for Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert 
Storm.

In late 2003, Ellis again answered the call of his country and was 
sent to Iraq as first sergeant for the Headquarters and Service 
Company. Ellis was promoted to sergeant major in 2004, making him the 
top enlisted man with a Camp Pendleton, California-based infantry 
battalion.

Adlai Stevenson once said, ''Patriotism is not short, frenzied 
outbursts of emotion, but the tranquil and steady dedication of a 
lifetime.'' Sgt. Maj. Ellis' dedication to patriotism was a lifelong 
commitment, which he displayed by devoting over 20 years of service to 
the Marine Corps. Among his many honors and decorations, Ellis was 
awarded the Meritorious Service Ribbon, the Navy and Marine Corp 
Commendation Medal with one gold star, the Navy and Marine Corps 
Achievement Medal with one gold star, and the Combat Action Ribbon with 
one gold star. Sgt. Maj. Ellis' devotion to our country and the 
protection of our freedoms and values deserve our most sincere 
appreciation.

Madam Speaker and colleagues, please join me in honoring Sgt. Maj. 
Ellis, who gave the ultimate sacrifice for his country on February 7, 
2007. May his actions and deeds never be forgotten.
