---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `ef85c8d552c1e431c9f0faf554eb9813`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, it is Christmas. We are all here in 
Washington working. Our troops are working for us around the world, in 
Afghanistan and in Iraq. There are a lot of other soldiers who have 
been working very hard this past year, the soldiers who support the 
Feed the Hungry programs and the community food banks all over the 
United States of America.

In Atlanta, GA, our State, there has been an award sponsored by 
Atlanta Gas Light for many years, called the ''Shining Light award.'' 
The award is that a gas light is installed somewhere in Atlanta to pay 
tribute to an individual who has made a historic contribution to the 
community and for the betterment of mankind--people such as former 
President Jimmy Carter, such as Ambassador Andrew Young, such as the 
founder and the gem of our State, S. Truett Cathy, the founder of 
Chick-Fil-A.

This year, the award has been named and will be given to Bill 
Bolling. Bill Bolling runs the Atlanta Community Food Bank. Bill 
Bolling, this year, will oversee the distribution of 20 million pounds 
of food to 800 nonprofit agencies to feed citizens of our State. It is 
his 29th year in building the Atlanta Community Food Bank into one of 
the finest facilities in our country.

Bill Bolling is an unselfish, untiring, honorable man of our 
community, who unselfishly gives of his time to see to it that others 
in pain and in hunger have food, support, and nourishment.

In this Christmas season of 2009, on the floor of the Senate, I pay 
tribute to Bill Bolling for his unselfish contribution to our State and 
to those less fortunate. But, equally, I do the same for those around 
the country who, in this difficult time of recession and this wonderful 
time of holiday, see to it that those who have little have food and 
those who have hunger have some nourishment, and see to it that America 
is what it always has been: a giving and compassionate country on 
behalf of its people.

I yield the floor.