---
---

# DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS
## `ef8a7396ab02b616e54467ddfab4b991`
`Mr. COLEMAN — 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. COLEMAN. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss a challenge 
facing our military forces on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan. These 
forces are facing an urgent need for a precision indirect fire munition 
organic to the Infantry Brigade Combat Teams and Stryker Brigade Combat 
Teams.

In the last 3 months there have been two Operational Needs Statements 
submitted by the units deployed in Afghanistan and Iraq. I have 
included these statements for the Record. Both of these documents 
highlight the urgent need to field a precision capability for the 120mm 
mortar: the main, and in some cases the only, indirect fire support 
available to our infantry in the close fight.

The commander of the XVIII Airborne Corps wrote in July:




 This capability is critically needed within the next 12 


 months. As troop levels in theater begin to drop, our units 


 can not afford to miss any opportunities to kill the enemy 


 due to lack of organic precision indirect fire. Without it, 


 IBCT's must resort to: slower reinforcing fires; committing 


 soldiers to an assault; or missing the opportunity 


 altogether.


In August the Commander of Joint Fires in Afghanistan described the 
problem starkly:




 The Rules of Engagement for the Afghanistan Theater of 


 Operations limits the use of conventional artillery and 


 mortar projectiles in support of combat operations. Recently, 


 COMISAF restricted all preparatory fires and pre-assault 


 fires to precision guided munitions and systems. Currently, 


 Afghanistan requires two Light Brigade Combat teams with no 


 organic surface precision strike capability. Our enemy takes 


 advantage of that gap by hiding among the local populace. 


 Additionally, the COIN environment in Afghanistan requires 


 the minimization of collateral damage.


Both of these field commanders specifically call for the fielding of 
precision guided mortars for the existing 120mm mortar system as 
quickly as possible.

It is my understanding that since the precision guided mortar 
munition, PGMM, fell prey to the Army budget cutters, the program has 
demonstrated remarkable test results. In fact, I thank the Defense 
Appropriations Subcommittee for rejecting the Army's request to 
reprogram additional funding away from PGMM.

I ask that the subcommittee continue to carry this item forward to be 
considered as part of a final conference report or supplemental, 
pending the results of ongoing Army reviews of the program.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the two documents which I 
referred to be printed in the Record.