---
---

# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `ef8f228d03ce2da90474aec2d050927c`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of 
H.R. 1538, the ''Wounded Warrior Assistance Act of 2007.'' The news of 
the horrible living conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center 
raised our national consciousness regarding the need to do more--much 
more--for wounded and injured service members and to upgrade the 
administrative systems that support them. While the committee made 
improvements in the past, there is more that can and should be done. 
When our heroic young men and women willingly sacrifice life or limb on 
the battlefield, the nation has a moral obligation to ensure that they 
are treated with respect and dignity.

According to Webster's, dignity is ''the quality or condition of 
being esteemed, honored or worthy.'' Madam Speaker, we can never do 
enough to honor our wounded veterans. Studies have shown that 30 
percent of troops deployed to Iraq suffer from depression, anxiety, or 
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). More than 1500 Iraq and 
Afghanistan veterans have sustained devastating brain injuries from 
improvised explosive devices (IEDs). However when wounded troops return 
home the treatment they receive is more befitting a second class 
citizen than a hero. This is a shame and a great stain on our nation.

How these problems could be overlooked or neglected by this 
Administration is unfathomable. The very leaders that these brave young 
men and women rely upon let them down. The message that incidents like 
Walter Reed Medical Center sends to our troops is that we do not care 
enough. But that is not the message we wish to send. The Wounded 
Warrior Assistance Act, H.R. 1538, will go a long away toward 
correcting this misapprehension.

On February 26, 2007, I had the opportunity to visit some of our 
wounded heroes at the Michael E. DeBakery VA Hospital in Houston, 
Texas. I promised those brave young men and women that ''those of us in 
Washington would do everything we could to ensure that the health and 
well being of our veterans was a top priority.''

Likewise, I was overwhelmed with sadness and anger after my visit to 
Walter Reed Hospital in May of last year. Walter Reed points to more 
general problems in the DOD and VA health care systems. The exposure of 
Walter Reed has led to the reviews of other DOD and VA health care 
facilities--reviews that have found that Walter Reed is not an isolated 
case. The Washington Post reported recently that a recent review by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs of 1,400 hospitals and other veterans' 
care facilities ''turned up more than 1,000 reports of substandard 
conditions--from leaky roofs and peeling paint to bug and bat 
infestations--as well as a smaller number of potential threats to 
patient safety, such as suicide risks in psychiatric wards.''

H.R. 1538 addresses the failures of an administration that was eager 
to go to war, yet took for granted its most valuable resource our 
troops. This bipartisan bill responds to the problems brought to light 
at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center and other military health care 
facilities by including provisions to: (1) improve the access to 
quality medical care for wounded service members who are outpatients at 
military health care facilities; (2) begin the process of restoring the 
integrity and efficiency of the disability evaluation system and taking 
other steps to cut bureaucratic red tape; and (3) improve the 
transition of wounded service members from the Armed Forces to the VA 
system.


Specifically, H.R. 1538 provides improvements to medical and dental 
care for members of the armed forces assigned to hospitals in an 
outpatient status. It establishes a toll-free hot line for reporting 
deficiencies in medical-related support facilities and expedited 
response to reports of deficiencies.

The legislation requires congressional notification of 
hospitalization of combat wounded service members and creates an 
independent medical advocate for service members appearing before 
medical evaluation boards. The bill also provides for training and 
reduced caseloads for physical evaluation board liaison officers. It 
also requires the establishment of a standardized training program and 
curriculum for department of defense disability evaluation system.

Our wounded warriors will also benefit from improved training for 
health care professionals, medical care case managers, and service 
member advocates on particular conditions of recovering service members 
provided for in the bill, as they will from establishment of a medical 
support fund for support of members of the armed forces returning to 
military service or civilian life.

I am especially pleased that the bill requires the establishment of 
an oversight board for wounded warriors and the submission of an annual 
report to Congress evaluating military medical facilities and the DOD 
and VA disability evaluation systems. Finally, the bill imposes a 
moratorium on the outsourcing of mission critical health care jobs at 
Walter Reed Medical Center and other medical facilities.

Mr. Chairman, every morning when I arrive at my office, I am reminded 
of how fortunate I am. Outside of my office there is a posterboard with 
the names and faces of those heroes from Houston, Texas who have lost 
their lives wearing the uniform of our country. I think to myself how 
lucky I am to live in a nation where so many brave young men and women 
volunteer to the ultimate sacrifice so that their countrymen can enjoy 
the blessings of liberty. Now is the time to remind our heroes they 
have not been forgotten. More importantly, America has not forgotten 
them. As I have said in the past: ''Just as our soldiers do not leave 
their comrades on the battle fields, America can not leave the injured 
to languish on their own with no comfort and support from a grateful 
nation. The problems in Iraq and Afghanistan are taking us away from 
focusing on the care for our wounded Veterans and their family and that 
must stop.''

Substandard living conditions, inattentive care, and bureaucratic red 
tape are completely unacceptable. We must correct everything that is 
wrong with the current system of health care for wounded veterans and 
make it right. Most important, a situation like Walter Reed must never 
be allowed to happen again. One reason we are the greatest nation in 
the world is because of the brave young men and women fighting for us 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and 
they deserve our absolute best. Let them know you care. Let us honor 
our wounded warriors. Let us pass H.R. 1538.