---
---

# None
## `efa62874d1f7b9906342bf053f97c9f8`
`Mr. LAMBORN — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. LAMBORN. I thank the gentleman from Georgia for his kind 
introduction and for his leadership in bringing this issue before the 
American people tonight. I also thank the gentlelady from Tennessee for 
her intelligent remarks as well.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to support and recognize the tremendous efforts 
of the men, women and leaders of our Armed Forces. The progress made in 
Iraq is undeniable. The surge is working. And as General Petraeus said 
today before the Senate Armed Services Committee, the men and women of 
Iraq and Iraqi Security Forces have themselves surged, determined to 
make Iraq a safe, secure and self-determined nation.

The surge in Iraq is working, but America's job is not complete. We 
must continue our mission until true freedom and stability are obtained 
in Iraq. To stop or pull back now would be irresponsible and reckless, 
risking American and Iraqi lives and the national security of both 
nations.

Reducing our presence in Iraq at this point would quickly undo the 
valuable progress that has taken years to achieve. As General Petraeus 
said before the Senators, it is a fragile situation, and it is easily 
reversible. To pull back now would communicate to terrorists that 
America has given up and does not have the stamina or commitment to 
persevere in the global war on jihadist terror.

The decision on when to reduce the presence of our troops must be 
based on winning the peace for the people of Iraq, not political whim 
that overlooks the successes of our military. But it must not be based 
on artificial timelines proposed by politicians in Washington as 
opposed to the considered judgment of the commanders in the field. 
History will not forgive us if we choose to lose a war we can win.

Precipitous withdrawal now means future generations of Americans and 
Iraqis will be forced to pay for our giving up victory at a time when 
we are not only achieving success, but when the people of Iraq 
themselves are rising up against the influence of terrorists and 
sectarian ideals in order to create an Iraqi state based on self-
determination and freedom.

The right thing to do is to support our service men and women and 
General Petraeus in their mission in Iraq. I, too, would like to bring 
our troops home, but not at the price of providing a safe haven for 
terrorists and allowing terrorists to claim victory.

To quit now would be a disservice to those who have sacrificed in so 
many ways, but especially to America's sons and daughters who have 
given so much, and in some cases paid the ultimate price for our 
security and the freedom of the people in Iraq as well.

So I join with my colleague from Georgia. I, too, look forward to 
listening to the two gentlemen tomorrow, General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker, as they describe what has been going on. And I look 
forward to the opportunity to ask questions and get to the bottom of 
things that are going on. But I know that I can say what I've just said 
now with full confidence because I've been watching what's happening in 
the news and I've been getting the reports up until now, just as my 
colleague from Georgia has.

I yield back to the gentleman from Georgia.