---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `efaed6381413eb5c19df87feeb92a90d`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, American troops must come home from 
Iraq. Because more than 3,000 of our men and women have lost their 
lives, and tens of thousands more have returned home wounded, American 
troops must come home from Iraq.

Because hundreds of billions of America's tax dollars have been sunk 
into the sands and marshes of Iraq, with much of that funding lost to 
waste, fraud, or abuse by those who have neither Iraq's nor America's 
best interests at heart, America's troops must come home from Iraq.

Because the public records of this conflict--reflected in the many 
retired generals who have spoken out against the conduct of the war, 
and the many books and articles chronicling its planning and 
execution--reveal catastrophic mistakes and misjudgments that have 
raised serious questions about this administration's very capacity for 
leadership, American troops must come home from Iraq.

Because that same administration misused and distorted intelligence, 
arguing that America should go to war on the basis of information that 
proved to be untrue or highly misleading, American troops must come 
home from Iraq.

Because despite the millions of Americans who joined together to call 
for a new direction in Iraq, this President chose instead to escalate 
the conflict, American troops must come home from Iraq.

Because the President and Vice President and their political allies 
would rather pick a political fight with this Congress, using false 
rhetoric, such as ''micromanaging'' and ''precipitous withdrawal,'' 
than answer tough questions from the American people, American troops 
must come home from Iraq.

Because the prospect of our troops' redeployment is the single most 
powerful force at our disposal to galvanize unity and cooperation among 
the Iraqi factions and effect real change, American troops must come 
home from Iraq.

And because even after all this, this President still refuses to 
listen to the American people and stubbornly fails to give this country 
the change of course it demands, it is up to this Congress to act to 
bring American troops home from Iraq.

Some claim this strategy is risky, but the greater risk by far would 
be to fail to seize the opportunity a redeployment of our troops 
presents us. To announce clearly to the world that American troops will 
soon leave Iraq will change the dynamic there in a positive way. It may 
be the only way we can change the dynamic there in a positive way. It 
will give us the chance to renew and rebuild diplomatic ties in the 
region and around the world that have been so badly damaged by this 
President and this President's war, and restore America's prestige and 
standing among our friends. It will send a signal to the insurgents who 
foment violence in Iraq that they will no longer be able to use the 
United States military presence as a recruiting tool for extremists, 
and it will motivate efforts by the Iraqis to secure and stabilize 
their Nation.

It will give the Iraqis the impetus to step forward and do the things 
our military leaders say they must do for the surge to succeed--things 
they have been disgracefully slow in doing, such as passing a 
hydrocarbon law to allow equal sharing of oil revenues among all 
Iraqis, and measures to facilitate elections, as an example.

It will give our country the time and resources to restore our 
extraordinary military to the strength and level of readiness our 
troops deserve. And it will give us the freedom and the resources to 
look to the many challenges that still confront us here at home, from 
soaring gas prices to a broken health care system.

To achieve all these things, we must take the first step. We must 
make it clear we will bring our troops home from Iraq. The measure 
offered by Senator Feingold, with the support of the distinguished 
majority leader, is a smart strategy. It has a responsible schedule and 
it will be an effective step to repair what the President has left 
broken.

It would require the President to redeploy our troops from Iraq by 
March 31, 2008. After that date, funds would only be available for 
three specific limited purposes.