---
---

# DEFEATING THE TERRORISTS ABROAD--NOT AT HOME
## `efafcfeb1c3e42e9a90f8d81998b6c83`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 12 January 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, yesterday afternoon as I 
was reading The Examiner, a Washington daily, I came across an 
editorial that summed up my view of our current conflict in Iraq and 
the overall global war on terrorism. I applaud The Examiner's editorial 
staff for declaring what is largely an unpopular view among the 
mainstream media.

The editorial follows.















[Jan. 11, 2007]


Do We Defeat the Terrorists in Iraq Now or Fight Them Here Tomorrow?




 Washington.--President Bush could not have been more frank 


 or honest with the American people than he was last night. 


 That said, the central issue remains today what it has been 


 since the first plane crashed into the WorId Trade Center on 


 Sept. 11, 2001: Are we as a nation willing to do whatever is 


 required to win the war on terrorism?



 Iraq is today the central front in that war, and the 


 president is doing all within his power to defeat the 


 terrorists there now so that we don't have to fight them here 


 in the future.



 The president believes the war in Iraq can be won by 


 increasing American troop strength for a period as the Iraqis 


 themselves assume greater responsibilities for securing their 


 country and by increasing U.S. economic aid to rebuild 


 infrastructure and provide jobs.



 Calling this troop movement a ''surge'' was unfortunate 


 because it conveyed the idea of something that isn't going to 


 happen--putting more U.S. soldiers on the ground than we have 


 had heretofore. In fact, as The Examiner's Bill Sammon 


 reported yesterday, even with the ''surge'' announced last 


 night, we will still be a few thousand short of the high 


 water mark of 160,000 U.S. troops a year ago.



 More important than the raw numbers is how those troops are 


 deployed.



 The president acknowledged last night that mistakes were 


 made in the days leading up to the U.S. action in Iraq and 


 the first phases of building the post-Saddam Hussein Iraq. 


 Working with increased Iraqi military and police forces, our 


 strengthened forces will now be able to rectify the biggest 


 of those mistakes: failing to eradicate the insurgents 


 completely and not disarming private militias like that of 


 Moqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army. Special attention is to be 


 devoted to Baghdad and Anbar province, with Iraqi army units 


 in the lead.



 There will be more U.S. casualties in coming months. But 


 the only way to affirm the sacrifice of American blood and 


 material resources in Iraq is persevering and winning. Iraq 


 is not Vietnam unless congressional Democrats heed extremists 


 like Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-MA, and withdraw funding for the 


 American war effort in Iraq as they did in 1974, which led 


 directly to the fall of Saigon in 1975.



 The killing fields followed throughout Southeast Asia as 


 the victors took revenge upon those who looked to America for 


 protection and freedom. The killing fields will come again if 


 America fails now because Iraq will dissolve into chaos and 


 then a jihadist totalitarianism.



 Many Rubicons are being crossed on Iraq. There will be no 


 crossing back if we heed the ignoble call to retreat.
