---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `efc80534f7fac6c784e9e71f15cf3e2c`
`Mr. BENNET — 3 August 2010`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today 
to honor the life and heroic service of PO2 Justin McNeley. Petty 
Officer McNeley, a member of Assault Craft Unit One, ACU-1, based in 
San Diego, died from wounds sustained during a firefight that occurred 
on July 23, 2010. Petty Officer McNeley was serving in support of 
Operation Enduring Freedom in Logar Province, Afghanistan. He was 30 
years old.

A native of Wheat Ridge, CO, Petty Officer McNeley enlisted in the 
Navy in 2001, following in his father's footsteps. Although his initial 
term of service had already finished, Petty Officer McNeley decided to 
stay in the Navy and continue to serve his country.

During over 9 years of service, Petty Officer McNeley distinguished 
himself through his courage, dedication to duty, and willingness to 
take on any challenge--no matter how dangerous. Commanders recognized 
his extraordinary bravery and talent. They described him with the words 
''hardworking'' and ''dedicated,'' and noted that he regularly 
volunteered for hazardous duty.

Petty Officer McNeley worked on the front lines of battle, serving in 
the most dangerous areas of Afghanistan. He is remembered by those who 
knew him as a consummate professional with an unending commitment to 
excellence. His family remembers him as a dedicated father, who loved 
to serve his country. Friends and neighbors remember him as a 
motorcycle enthusiast with undeniable charisma. He even traded pen pal 
letters with students from an elementary school in Arizona, where he 
used to live.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Petty 
Officer McNeley's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by 
selflessly putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He 
lived with a sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield was 
uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Petty Officer McNeley will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To Petty Officer McNeley's entire family, I cannot imagine the sorrow 
you must be feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain of your loss will 
be eased by your pride in Justin's service and by your knowledge that 
his country will never forget him. We are humbled by his service and 
his sacrifice.
