---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `efce8f74b7d877fd43f9293e481d976d`
`Mr. OBEY — 18 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Chairman, I have been trying to figure out what to 
name this operation I have been watching, and I think we ought to name 
it ''Operation Divert Attention.''

We have heard comments on a number of occasions now, when Members are 
offering amendments to strike these tiny items, we constantly hear, oh, 
we are running a deficit, we have to be fiscally responsible.

Well, if I am looking at the Record correctly, the gentleman offering 
this amendment voted to authorize the President to go to war in Iraq. 
If I take a look at the Record correctly, all three of the gentlemen 
who have been acting as the point men in going after these projects and 
in going after other small amendments today, all voted for the 2007 
Republican budget resolution.

I would point out it is those budget policies, and those foreign 
policies, which have given us, counting the supplemental this year, 
$600 billion in borrowed money spent on the Iraqi war in a case of 
mistaken identity, where the President mistook that stocky fellow with 
the mustache, Saddam Hussein, for that tall fellow with the beard, 
Osama bin Laden, and hit the wrong country by mistake.

I would also say that the three gentlemen who voted for those 
Republican budget policies are the fellows who voted for tax policies 
that are watching $57 billion go out the door this year in tax cuts for 
millionaires.

Then they try to recoup on the deficit front by saying, oh, we ought 
to


save a little piece here and a little piece there. If they had been as 
concerned about the fiscal impact of their actions, voting for past 
budget resolutions, and voting for past war resolutions, we wouldn't be 
sitting here with this deficit today, and this attack on these 
investments would be even more chuckle-producing than this episode.

Madam Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.