# None
## `efd0a8fe6d0849016b5eb733820a8a1c`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. If the gentlewoman will yield for a second, I 
want to share something with the Members and also with those of us here 
on the floor.

During the break, I took the privilege of going out to Camp Pendleton 
in California. As you go through the gate off of I-5, there is a 
billboard that is there, like you would see out in front of a drugstore 
or something, but it is an electronic billboard and it talks about if 
you need counseling. They have folks coming back every 4 months or so, 
some folks who have gone on their third and fourth tour.

Think about it. You have families that live on that base. You have 
individuals the age of 18 or 19 years old, just single, that are living 
there.

I had an opportunity to go through a simulator there at Camp 
Pendleton like you are in an Iraqi village or in a city, in Baghdad, in 
Fallujah. I have walked the streets of Fallujah. Mr. Altmire and I have 
done it. Mr. Ryan and I have been to Iraq on another trip. The ground, 
the structure, the folks dressed as though you are in Baghdad, it is a 
true simulation, and they have gunfire and IEDs and all of these things 
kind of going off in this simulator.

Just walking through that was an experience for me, and that was just 
an enactment of what could happen or what should happen and giving our 
troops, our Marines, units going through there, a real flavor of what 
is going on.

I can imagine being in the situation. I knew that I could walk out, 
the sun will be shining, it will be California weather. But when you 
are in that kind of situation, some folks feel that this is just some 
sort of made-for-television kind of thing.

I love the troops. Mr. Ryan and I, we have been hearing this since we 
have been in Congress, because when we first got here, the war just 
started. We weren't here for the vote to go or not to go, but we got 
here right as soon as the war actually started. Some of the statements 
that are littered throughout the Congressional Record are, you know, 
''our troops, we'll show 'em,'' and carrying on.

We do have the best and the greatest and the most able military on 
the face of the Earth, by far. But when you start dealing with the real 
human issues of our men and women that are in combat, they go through a 
lot and their families go through a lot.

What you said, Ms. Clarke, about we should take under consideration 
what happens to those individuals, it's not a game.



Mr. RYAN OF Ohio. Just to share a little bit, Mr. Speaker. We were up 
at Walter Reed on Monday. And you want to talk about the issue of war 
smacking you right in the face, when you see someone just a few years 
younger than we are without legs, traumatic brain injury. You hear 
stories from parents who say, ''I got a call from Iraq, and my son or 
daughter, all they told me was he had a brain injury, and hung up the 
phone,'' and they don't hear back for 4 days.

I mean, when you put all these stories together, that one particular 
mom waiting there 4 days not knowing, the unknown of whether or not 
your kid is going to live or die; or you hear the stories about the 
soldier we had in Batavia, Ohio, where you didn't know; the body was 
missing, you couldn't find it, and then you find it.

When you add all of this stress up and you put it into our families 
and you put it into the soldiers that are there, and you talk about the 
long-term health care costs of this war, not to mention what is 
happening there day-to-day there now, but the long-term effects when at 
some point this is all settled hopefully, one way or the other, at 
least our portion of it is and our troops are back home for the most 
part, the effects are still going to be left with us. And I don't know 
if any of you have had the opportunity to see, Phil Donahue has this 
new documentary out called Body of War, and it is all about the actual 
physical injuries that these families are going through. And I think it 
is important for us to remember that. And when you hear and read in the 
paper that 10 or 15 civilians or four troops, those are real people. 
And those kind of situations, when you have all these civilian deaths 
in Iraq, from a very practical standpoint, one is they are civilians 
and that is a whole other issue, but from a very practical standpoint 
it makes it very difficult for us to solve the political problems over 
there when everyone who is a part of the government are losing brothers 
and sisters and aunts and uncles who are getting killed by these bombs 
that are going off over in Iraq. It makes it very difficult.