---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `efd89aa516853859bbf65100bdc85a3d`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 15 July 2009`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, first, I commend my colleague from 
Arizona, Senator McCain, for his great leadership and for his important 
words about Burma. No one would know better than Senator McCain about 
the human rights violations of someone held in a prison such as that.

As he is aware, on a bipartisan basis, the women Senators have come 
together to support Aung San Suu Kyi and her fight in Burma.

I would also add, I recently met with a Burmese community in my 
State. They are concerned about their relatives there and everything 
that is happening in that country. We have someone in our office whose 
relatives are in Burma.

So I thank the Senator for his words and also for his leadership on 
the amendment, the Levin-McCain amendment to strike the $1.75 billion 
added to the bill that is on the floor to purchase additional F-22 
aircraft that have not been requested by the Pentagon.

This is a very difficult issue for many people in this Chamber, 
including the Senator from Arizona. But we all know in the end what 
counts is to do the right thing for our troops and for our national 
security.

This amendment truly gives us an important choice: Will we continue 
to pour billions into unproven weapons systems, despite repeated cost 
overruns and program delays or are we going to make the hard choices 
necessary to ensure that our troops in the field have what they need to 
fight present and future conflicts?

These F-22s, we know, possess unique flying capabilities, but not one 
has ever flown over Iraq or Afghanistan. We have much more pressing 
needs. Both the past President and the current President support this 
amendment. I hope my colleagues will support it as well.

I am actually here to speak in support of the Matthew Shepard Hate 
Crimes Prevention Act. I am a cosponsor of this legislation which will 
help us fight hate crimes and make our communities safer.

Among other things, the bill would impose criminal penalties for 
targeting a victim on the basis of race, religion, sexual orientation 
or disability.

I wish to thank Senator Leahy for his work on this bill and, of 
course, Senator Kennedy for his work and leadership on the issue over 
the years.

I have been involved with this piece of legislation for many years. 
If you go way back to 2000, when I was the county prosecutor for 
Minnesota's largest county, I was actually called to Washington for the 
first time to take part in a ceremony in which the bill was introduced.

I remember this moment well because there I was with the President at 
the time, President Clinton, and Attorney General Reno. We were ready 
to walk in for this ceremony to introduce the hate crimes bill. I was 
standing outside, and the military band struck up ''Hail to the Chief'' 
because the President was entering the room. I started to walk, and all 
of a sudden I felt this big hand on my shoulder, and this voice said: I 
know you are going to do great out there, but when they play that song 
I usually go first.

It is something I will never forget.

So here I am now, 9 years later, with this same bill. We are working 
very hard to get this bill passed. I am hopeful we will be able to do 
that.

What I remember most about that day back in 2000, however, was the 
meeting I had with the investigators in the Matthew Shepard case. They 
were two burly cops from Wyoming, and they talked about the fact that 
until they had investigated that horrible crime, they had not 
considered what the victim's, Matthew Shepard's, life was like.

When they got to know the family in the case, when they got to know 
the mom, and they got to know the people surrounding Matthew Shepard, 
their own lives changed forever.

I hope by passing this bill we can prevent other Matthew Shepards 
from being targeted and deter hate crimes.

Attorney General Eric Holder recently appeared before the Senate 
Judiciary Committee to talk about his support for this bill, and he 
gave us some somber statistics. He reported that ''there have been over 
77,000 hate crime incidents reported to the FBI'' from 1998 to 2007 or 
''nearly one hate crime every hour of every day'' for the past decade.

In my State of Minnesota, there were 157 reported offenses in 2007. 
But when I think about this issue, it is not just about the statistics. 
It is about the victims of these crimes.

When I was county prosecutor, we had a number of cases that were 
clearly motivated by hate. That was one of the reasons, actually, I was 
chosen to go out to Washington. And part of it was we had worked well 
with the Federal prosecutors on some of the cases.

We had the case of a 14-year-old African-American boy who was minding 
his own business, and a guy who did have some mental health issues told 
his friends: I am going to go out and--he used a different word--but 
shoot a Black kid on Martin Luther King Day. And he did. And he almost 
killed this little 14-year-old boy. But he survived, and we prosecuted 
the case.

I also think about a young Hispanic man. He was working in a factory, 
and his boss got mad at him because he did not speak English and he was 
speaking Spanish at work. His boss took a 2 by 4 and hit him over the 
head, resulting in bleeding in his brain and brain damage--all for 
speaking Spanish.

I also think about the case we had with a Hindu temple that was 
severely vandalized by young kids. And I think about the case of a 
Korean church that had all kinds of hateful graffiti written on it. 
Some of these cases, as I said, were major attempted murder cases. Some 
of them were simply graffiti cases. But to the people in that church, 
to the people in that temple, it meant something much more.

That is why I was glad, at least in a few of these cases, we were 
able to use our State hate crimes legislation. Those were cases in 
Minnesota--a place where you might not think you would see these kinds 
of cases. But we did.

This bill in front of us, the Matthew Shepard hate crimes bill, will 
strengthen the ability of Federal, State, local, and tribal governments 
to investigate and prosecute hate crimes. It increases the number of 
personnel at the Treasury Department and the Department of Justice 
working on hate crimes. It gives grants to State and local law 
enforcement officials investigating and prosecuting hate crimes. It 
authorizes the Attorney General to provide resources and support to 
State, local, and tribal law enforcement officials for hate crime 
investigations and prosecutions.


In addition, this bill authorizes the Federal Government to step in 
when needed and prosecute hate crimes, when needed, after the Justice 
Department certifies that a Federal prosecution is necessary. While 
most of these cases will continue to be handled by State and local 
jurisdictions, the bill provides a Federal backstop for State and local 
law enforcement to deal with hate crimes that otherwise might not be 
effectively investigated and prosecuted or for when States request 
assistance. It is a backdrop. Think about how many other areas of the 
law where we have these kinds of backdrops. In the gun area, as the 
Presiding Officer is aware from his work in the State of


New Mexico, sometimes we have overlapping jurisdictions. The gun crime 
is a perfect example. State laws can apply, but sometimes the Feds will 
come in or you will want them to come in and handle the case. The same 
with drug crimes. It helps to have that Federal backdrop for the 
investigating power, for the sentencing power, and for many other 
things. So this bill won't usurp the role of local law enforcement but, 
rather, supplement it when needed.

Finally, I wish to note that this legislation has the support of 
numerous law enforcement organizations, including the International 
Association of Chiefs of Police, the Major Cities Chiefs, and the 
National District Attorneys Association.

For years we have recognized the need for this legislation. I think 
back to 2000 when I was standing outside of the East Room with 
President Clinton when it was first introduced. For years we have known 
we need this legislation, but year after year the forces of reaction 
have stalled and blocked and tried to do everything they can to make it 
go away. This must end.

A little over 40 years ago, Robert Kennedy broke the news to a crowd 
in Indianapolis that Martin Luther King, Jr., had just been 
assassinated. During his speech, Kennedy called on the crowd and the 
country to make an effort, to understand and to comprehend, and to 
replace that violence, that stain of bloodshed with an effort to 
understand with compassion and love. We should answer his call today.

I look forward to the day--and I hope it will be very soon--when the 
Hate Crimes Prevention Act becomes law. It is long overdue. I urge my 
colleagues to support it.

Thank you very much, Mr. President.

I yield the floor, and I note the absence of a quorum.