# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `efdffa826f981f0d6620b6b698fc4164`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 13 July 2009`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Chair, the increases in funding for veterans 
services contained in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations bill are overdue and welcome. It continues increases in 
veterans' health care funding by providing $53 billion for the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. It also provides advanced 
appropriations for FY 2011 for medical accounts. I have long supported 
advance appropriations for veterans because it helps to stabilize 
funding instability and ultimately results in higher quality care for 
veterans. The bill provides $3.2 billion, a 40 percent increase over 
last year, to combat homelessness. It provides $4.6 billion for mental 
health care to help address the rising incidence of Post Traumatic 
Stress Disorder in our newer veterans. It provides for the hiring of 
1,200 additional claims processors to continue to work to eliminate the 
backlog of benefits claims.

Unfortunately, the bill also includes funds for building extensive 
infrastructure to support our military operations in Afghanistan. It is 
clear that this construction will support the expansion of ongoing 
operations in the region. This is particularly troubling because the 
Administration is still without an exit strategy for Afghanistan. 
Additionally, U.S. presence in the region has served to foment anti-
American sentiment. I remain concerned that this combination of factors 
will not ensure U.S. ''success'' in the region but will ensure that the 
months and perhaps years ahead will be


deadly for our brave troops and for the Afghan people.

It is unacceptable to fund a more permanent presence in Afghanistan 
in a bill that gives our veterans services they need. Our veterans 
deserve more than we could ever repay. I must support this bill.
