# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `efe142cdfde5f5839c12a24f6ecb4abe`
`Mr. BRADY of Texas â€” 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. BRADY of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill 
due to the last-minute addition of the Pakistan Afghanistan Recovery 
Opportunity Zone bill.

While I commend Congressman Van Hollen for his hard work and his 
strong commitment to this very important legislation, I am concerned 
the bill fails to encourage significant investment in the Afghan and 
Pakistan regions under the new trade program. And I say that as someone 
who believes that trade can be a powerful tool to help developing 
countries lift themselves up out of poverty. Unfortunately, I believe 
this bill will discourage economic development and investment because 
it includes some dangerous eligibility criteria that will drive away 
investment and require each firm, including U.S. firms, there


to meet labor standards that could exceed U.S. law in such a way that 
will create a dangerous precedent that could be applied to our own 
free-trade agreements, making U.S. labor laws vulnerable to challenge 
from foreign countries.

And the scope of the eligible products in the bill, unfortunately, 
have been whittled down--I know there have been difficult negotiations 
to try and broaden that--and it imposes fees on certain Pakistan 
products in return for sales of others; again, sort of, I think, a 
tradeoff that has been difficult to swallow.

I am concerned that this measure, despite its excellent intentions--
and again, very hard work from Congressman Van Hollen--will fall short 
of its objectives to bring economic stability to this very difficult 
region.

I would point out, too, we are doing a lot to open up America to 
foreign countries. We've had six votes to open up America to foreign 
sales, but no votes to open up other countries to what we sell. It's 
not enough to buy American; we need to sell American products 
throughout the world. And in this economic recession, we have three 
pending trade agreements that would allow us to sell $11 billion of 
American products around the world to create jobs here in the United 
States that are being held up, not brought to a vote on the floor. We 
need to get our priorities right. As we help lift countries up, let's 
lift American jobs up as well.