---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2011
## `efe4900e540ec26d0930dda17b892e01`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 28 July 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Madam Chair, I rise in strong support of 
the rule for H.R. 5822, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2011. I would like to thank 
my colleague, Mr. Edwards, for introducing this important bill honoring 
our continued commitment to support the brave men and women who have 
been willing to sacrifice their very lives in the service of our nation 
and the freedom we so cherish. Our armed forces and their family 
members are among the most valued members of our society, custodians of 
our freedom and protectors of our democracy. We must continually re-
commit ourselves to serving them with the same honor, dignity and 
respect with which they serve their country.

This bill generously provides substantial funding, over 77 billion 
dollars, in the service of our men and women in uniform, veterans, and 
their families for fiscal year 2011. It is a continuation of three and 
a half years of hard work and tireless efforts on behalf of the House 
Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, 
and Related Agencies. This bill is a testament to their commitment to 
our soldiers, veterans and their loved ones. Moreover, the bill 
contains specific guidelines and provisions to ensure that all funds 
are spent responsibly, accountably and in a way that serves our troops 
and American taxpayers.

Of the 77 billion dollars, 18.7 billion are for Military 
Construction. The funds will provide adequate housing for our young 
military trainees bravely serving their country; it will fund 
environmental cleanup of closed or moved bases as we strategically re-
align resources; it will provide for a National Guard and Reserve 
initiative for the men and women serving their nation at home; and it 
grants funding for critical construction for overseas contingencies 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The bill also dedicates over 56 billion dollars to Veterans Affairs 
honoring those who, after serving their country overseas, returned home 
to re-integrate into the society they fought valiantly to protect. The 
majority of the funding, over 37 billion, will go to providing much 
needed and well deserved medical services for all veterans, including 
mental health services and assistance to homeless veterans. The 
remaining funding will be used for major and minor construction 
projects, medical and prosthetic research, and medical facilities in 
the service of our honored veterans.


Finally, in Related Agencies, the bill is providing for a number of 
other critical needs, such as the National Cemetery, funding for an 
Armed Forces Retirement Home, and the Monuments Commission which 
manages and cares for the monuments and cemeteries around the world 
that honor the service of our armed forces.

Additionally, in respect for the fact that the American public has 
rightly demanded greater


efficiency in government and efforts to reduce our deficit spending, 
there are a number of important provisions to ensure that all funds are 
spent in the most effective, efficient and expedient way possible. The 
provisions include several controls for Veterans Affairs spending and 
contract oversight, as well as oversight provisions for all 
construction projects in Iraq and Afghanistan, among others.

Although I am disappointed that my amendment, establishing 
portability between states for individualized education, disability and 
therapeutic benefits of a dependent of a member of the armed forces 
upon transfer of the member, was not included in the final version, I 
still gladly and proudly support this bill.

However, I would like to reiterate that an important part of anyone's 
quality of life is their family and dependents. One of the ways in 
which we can serve the members of the armed forces who sacrifice so 
much for our safety and our liberty is to ensure that their families 
are taken care of, and eliminate the bureaucratic red tape involved in 
moving from one place to another. Members of the armed forces often 
find themselves moving, and uprooting their families and their lives. 
Hopefully such a provision, aimed at facilitating that process by 
making the educational, disability and therapeutic benefits of a child 
or dependent of a member of the armed forces transferable from one 
state to another, will be included in future legislation.

In closing, I reiterate my strong support for this bill, and express 
my most sincere and heartfelt appreciation to everyone fighting to 
defend our country for their service and sacrifice for the good of the 
nation.