---
---

# None
## `efe58092dc6d5e640e055c0ce36d6722`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. It is an honor 
to come to the floor to have the 30-Something Working Group. And as you 
know, we have been coming to the floor now some 4 years strong, 4/1/2/ 
years, bringing to light issues before the Congress and also the 
American people on what's happening under the Capitol dome.

We have been doing a lot of legislation recently in this 110th 
Congress that I think should definitely be highlighted every time we 
have the opportunity to do so. We have a number of pieces of 
legislation that are in the pipeline right now that are being sent to 
the White House that the President has threatened to veto. These are 
priorities that the American people voted for to move in a new 
direction; need it be in Iraq; need it be domestically; or need it be 
making sure that we run this government in a fiscal way, one that all 
Americans, Democrats, Republicans, and independents alike, would like 
to have.

Good government is good. And it's important that we encourage not 
only the passage of good pieces of legislation but also make sure that 
we encourage the President to do the right thing, even though he may 
say from time to time that he is not going to do things, that he will 
sign pieces of legislation like the Student Loan Reduction Act, which 
is so very, very important. It cuts student loan rates in half.

I want to just commend the Members here in this Chamber, especially 
in the majority, that pushed the President to sign that bill. I want to 
thank all of the college kids and students and parents and grandparents 
that are having to help their young people pay back their student loans 
and to being able to cut that interest rate in half.

I am joined tonight by two of my, and I can say this, bestest friends 
in Congress: Mrs. Stephanie Tubbs Jones, the chairwoman of the Ethics 
Committee and a colleague that I serve with on the Ways and Means 
Committee; and also my good friend Tim Ryan from Youngstown, Ohio, who 
is a member of the Appropriations Committee that considers himself a 
very important part of what we do here. As you know, Ways and Means, we 
find the ways and means, and he says he has appropriated to make sure 
it all goes to the right place, Mr. Speaker.

I guess what we usually do, and what I am going to do, without really 
making opening comments because we like to have a discussion, I want to 
allow my two colleagues here to share some of their thoughts with us. 
But before I do that, today, as you know, in the 30-Something Working 
Group, we shed light on what is happening in Iraq. We know that we have 
a number of our men and women that are there in harm's way. We know 
that we have men and women in Afghanistan and also deployed throughout 
the world.

But as of today, October 3, the total deaths have been 3,808. The 
total number of wounded in action and returning to duty within 72 hours 
has been 15,432. The number wounded in action and not returning to duty 
within 72 hours has been 12,577. The total number of wounded is 27,753.

I want to make sure, Mr. Speaker, and we want to make sure, the 30-
Something Working Group, that Members know what is going on in the 
Middle East and that we bring this to their attention and read it into 
the Congressional Record so that we can every day move towards a 
position that would take our combat troops out of harm's way and 
replace them with Iraqi troops. We can provide technical support, but I 
think that is very important.

With that, I yield to my colleague Mrs. Stephanie Tubbs Jones.