# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `efe78ff2e82c014318b42c30936e2fe3`
`Mr. TAYLOR — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. TAYLOR. I also want to thank my colleague Mr. Akin for all of his 
help on this and all of the Seapower Subcommittee, and in particular I 
want to commend our great staff: Ms. Jenness Simler, Captain Will Ebbs, 
Heath Bope, Jesse Tolleson, and Liz Drummond.











Actions Speak Louder Than Words




 Since 2007, the House Armed Services Committee under 


 Chairman Ike Skelton has continued to grow our nation's air, 


 land and sea forces to address the threats facing the United 


 States from both foreign nations and terrorist organizations. 


 Chairman Skelton's predecessor, Duncan Hunter, deserves 


 credit for leading House Armed Service Committee member's 


 efforts to provide up-armored Humvees, Improvised Explosive 


 Device (IEDs) Jammers, and other initiatives to counter the 


 IED threat in Iraq and Afghanistan. However, the game 


 changing improvement in the IED effort was the rapid 


 development and fielding of the Mine Resistant Ambush 


 Protected Vehicle (MRAP) that occurred under the leadership 


 of Chairman Ike Skelton, The actions of the Democratic 


 majority speak much louder than words when it comes to our 


 national defense.



 The Mississippi National Guard's 155th Heavy Brigade Combat 


 Team returned home to Mississippi in March 2010 after 


 completing their second tour of duty in Iraq. During their 


 deployment they encountered more than 80 attacks from IEDs 


 without suffering any fatalities or serious injuries compared 


 to their 2005 deployment where they suffered 28 fatalities 


 from lED attacks. During their most recent deployment, their 


 unit was equipped with MRAPs. Prior to 2007, the demand for 


 MRAP's was ignored for four straight years by Secretary of 


 Defense, Donald Rumsfeld. The Republican majority in Congress 


 did not prod Secretary Rumsfeld to build these vehicles at 


 the rate our forward deployed commanders were requesting.



 In 2004 military officials in Iraq began requesting MRAPs 


 from the Pentagon to counter the enemy's most successful 


 means of attack--the IED. At the time, 60% of U.S. fatalities 


 in Iraq were the direct result of IED attacks. Secretary 


 Rumsfeld and top leaders at the Pentagon originally ignored 


 these requests from the forward deployed commanders to make 


 fielding MRAPs a priority. By the end of 2006 the Department 


 of Defense's (DoD) established requirement for MRAPs for the 


 Iraq war effort was an absurdly low amount--4000 vehicles.



 Before MRAPs were available in Iraq or Afghanistan, 


 military patrols were conducted in up-armored Humvees. The 


 enemy quickly discovered this vehicles vulnerability to 


 under-bottom explosions. Since Secretary Rumsfeld had refused 


 to provide MRAPs despite the requests coming from the theater 


 of combat, the result of continuing to use up-armored Humvees 


 was unnecessary American injuries and deaths. The MRAP is 


 designed with a ''V'' shaped bottom that provides an 


 effective defense against bottom exploding IEDs by forcing 


 the impact of the explosion away from the bottom of the 


 vehicle, unlike the Humvees.



 When I became Chairman of the Seapower and Expeditionary 


 Forces Subcommittee in January 2007, under the new Democratic 


 majority, the very first hearing I chaired focused on the 


 need to rapidly get MRAPs to




 our troops in Iraq. I worked with Chairman Skelton and my 


 colleagues on the Armed Services Committee to provide an 


 additional $16.4 billion in 2007 for procurement, building 


 and transporting 15,374 MRAPs to Iraq. This effort continues 


 today, and we currently have approximately 16,000 MRAPs in 


 Iraq and Afghanistan. We also continue to work with DOD on 


 providing vehicles that provide the same type of protection 


 as the MRAP but are more suitable for the hazardous terrain 


 and conditions in Afghanistan. There are approximately 2300 


 of these vehicles in operational units in Afghanistan, with 


 6,800 working their way through the pipeline to get to the 


 theater of combat. We continue to produce about 1000 of these 


 life saving vehicles a month.



 For years the House Armed Services Committee has voiced 


 concerns over the concurrent and high-risk development of the 


 F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, which in turn, has caused a 


 several years delay in its operational fielding. Because of 


 this issue, coupled with the planned F/A-18 production line 


 drawdown, our Naval Air Forces face a significant strike-


 fighter shortfall peaking at over 250 aircraft in 2017. 


 Realizing this significant issue over the last two years, the 


 committee has added 17 F/A-18s to the Department's request to 


 help mitigate the shortfall. The Committee, under Chairman 


 Skelton's leadership, also included candid language within 


 the FY11 NDAA report stating that ''barring a complete 


 reversal'' of the F-35 program failures, the Committee 


 expects the Navy to ''continue production of F/A-18s to 


 prevent our naval airpower from losing significance in our 


 nation's arsenal,''



 I have made the commitment to my colleagues on the 


 Committee and to Chairman Skelton to get our shipbuilding 


 back on track. The United States Navy's goal is to maintain a 


 313 ship fleet capable of transporting troops around the 


 world, providing support for military operations, along with 


 a global U.S. presence. The Navy's fleet is currently at 286 


 ships, Starting in 2003, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, 


 shifted our defense needs primarily to the Army, the National 


 Guard and our Reserves. During this time, the Navy's 


 shipbuilding program went stagnant, lacked direction, and had 


 no plan in place to reach the Navy's stated goal of a 313 


 ship fleet.



 This all changed starting in 2007. The Armed Services 


 Committee began addressing the Navy's acquisition reform 


 process, the cost overruns as a result of Secretary 


 Rumsfeld's outsourcing of shipbuilding to contractors and 


 lead system integrators. We have provided the Navy real goals 


 to meet each year in order to build the Navy back to a 313 


 ship fleet.



 This reformation includes a proposed authorization of 10 


 ships in this year's National Defense Authorization Act. We 


 have worked to bring the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) back 


 under control. These ships had been previously authorized, 


 but the program spun wildly out of control. It got to the 


 point where the contractors wanted $600 million for a ship 


 they originally said could be built for $220 million in 


 fiscal year 2005. This cost increase prevented the Navy from 


 building the amount of LCS' originally approved by Congress 


 which seriously affected the Navy's ability of reaching its 


 goal of a 313 ship fleet.



 Chairman Skelton and the Democratic majority also prevented 


 another costly over run from occurring by capping the DDG 


 1000 program at three ships at approximately $3 billion per 


 ship. This program was running billions of dollars over 


 budget. By capping this program at three ships, we allowed 


 the Navy to shift funds into a much more successful 


 shipbuilding program--the DDG 51 program. This maximizes the 


 Navy's budget by providing them with a ship that has a proven 


 track record for success and providing the funds to a proven 


 shipbuilding program that has already produced 58 ships for 


 the United States Navy,



 The Navy has also received authorization for 15 ships not 


 including the additional 10 ships in the proposed FY 2011 


 NDAA, to be built from fiscal years 2009 through 2011, Since 


 2007, the Navy's fleet has grown by 7 ships to 286 ships. 


 Prior to this, the Navy's fleet was the smallest it has been 


 since the 19th century at 279 ships. The progress made by the 


 Navy's shipbuilding program is the direct result of a clear 


 and consistent plan and new leadership at the Department of 


 the Navy. It is by no means a coincidence that the fleet has 


 grown and continues to grow under Chairman Skelton's 


 leadership during this Democratically controlled Congress.



 While men and women in the United States military continue 


 to be put in harms way in Iraq and Afghanistan we must 


 continue providing them the real support necessary to allow 


 them to successfully carry out their mission. It is clear 


 that the House Armed Services Committee under Chairman 


 Skelton, has provided much more than mere words or rhetoric 


 and has acted loudly to ensure that the Department of Defense 


 and our men and women fighting overseas constantly have what 


 they need to succeed in protecting and defending the United 


 States of America.



























Gene Taylor,























 Member of Congress.
