---
---

# THE ECONOMY
## `efebd5619c14caaa54a1c971fa1e670f`
`Mr. SANDERS — 10 December 2010`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Clearly, we have a number of Republicans who want to 
make that extension permanent. Whether it will ever be made permanent I 
don't know. But the point is, when you hear folks say it is only a 2-
year extension, I suggest you take that with a grain of salt.

Let me say, if in fact we do what the Republicans have wanted to do 
right now as we enter this debate--they wanted a 10-year extension--
that would add $700 billion to our national debt. I have four kids and 
I have six grandchildren. None of them has a whole lot of money. I 
think it is grossly unfair to ask my kids and grandchildren and the 
children all over this country to be paying higher taxes in order to 
provide tax breaks for billionaires because we have driven up the 
national debt. That is plain wrong. I think the vast majority of the 
American people, whether they are progressives like myself or whether 
they are conservatives, perceive that concept of giving tax breaks to 
billionaires when we have such a high national debt makes no sense at 
all.

Furthermore, it is important to point out that extending income tax 
breaks to the top 2 percent is not the only unfair tax proposal in this 
agreement. This agreement between the President and the Republican 
leadership also calls for a continuation of the Bush era 15-percent tax 
rate on capital gains and dividends, meaning that those people who make 
their living off their investments will continue to pay a substantially 
lower tax rate than firemen, teachers, nurses, carpenters, and 
virtually all the other working people of this country. I do not think 
that is fair. That is wrong. If this agreement were to be passed, we 
would be continuing that unfair arrangement.

On top of all that, this agreement includes a horrendous proposal 
regarding the estate tax. That is a Teddy Roosevelt initiative. Teddy 
Roosevelt was talking about this in the early years of the 20th 
century. It was enacted in 1916 and it was enacted for a couple of 
reasons. Teddy Roosevelt and the people of that era thought it was 
wrong that a handful of people could have a huge


concentration of wealth and then give that wealth, transmit that wealth 
to their children. He did not think that was right.

Furthermore, it was a source, a progressive and fair source, of 
revenue. Under the agreement struck between the Republican leadership 
and the President, the estate tax rate, which was 55 percent under 
President Clinton--and let's all remember, we had problems with the 
economy under President Clinton but very few will deny that during 
those years we were creating a heck of a lot more jobs than we did 
under President Bush. That is the fact--over 20 million jobs under 
President Clinton. We lost 600,000 private sector jobs under President 
Bush. During the Clinton era, the tax rate on the estate tax was 55 
percent. What this arrangement would do is lower that tax rate to 35 
percent, with an exemption on the first $5 million of an individual's 
estate and $10 million for couples.

Here is the important point I think many people do not know. I have 
to confess my Republican friends and their pollsters and their language 
people have done a very good job. This is the so-called death tax. I 
think all over America people say this is terrible. I have $50,000 in 
the bank and I want to leave that to my kids and the Government is 
going to take 55 percent of that, 35 percent of that. What an outrage.

Let us be very clear: This tax applies only--only--to the top three-
tenths of 1 percent of American families; 99.7 percent of American 
families will not pay one nickel in an estate tax. This is not a tax on 
the rich, this is a tax on the very, very, very rich.

If my Republican friends had been successful in doing what they want 
to do, which is eliminate this estate tax completely, it would have 
cost our Treasury--raised the national debt by $1 trillion over a 10-
year period. Families such as the Walton family, of Wal-Mart fame, 
would have received, just this one family, about a $30 billion tax 
break.

I find it hard to believe when we are talking about massive cuts in 
programs for working families, when we have this huge national debt, 
that anybody would be agreeing to lowering the estate tax rate to 35 
percent. That is what this agreement does and I think that is a very 
bad idea.

Once again, while the agreement on the estate tax is for 2 years--
once again, there is very little doubt in my mind that the Republicans 
will continue to push for lower and lower estate tax rates because that 
is what they want. I think Senator Kyl has been pretty clear about 
this. They want to permanently repeal that tax. That is $1 trillion in 
tax breaks to the top three-tenths of 1 percent. I think we are down a 
bad path there and that is another reason why this agreement does not 
make a whole lot of sense.

Third--and this is a very important point that I think has not yet 
gotten the attention it deserves--this agreement contains a payroll tax 
holiday which would cut $120 billion from Social Security payroll taxes 
for workers. There are a lot of folks out there who say: This is pretty 
good. I am a worker, my contribution will go from 6.2 percent today 
down to 4.2 percent. I will have more money in my paycheck. It is a 
good idea.

Let's take a deep breath and let's think about it for a second and 
understand what this whole thing is about. This payroll tax holiday 
concept, as I understand it, originally started with conservative 
Republicans. I know the Vice President recently made the point this was 
originally a Republican idea. Why did the Republicans come up with this 
idea? These are exactly the same people who do not believe in Social 
Security. These are the same people who either want to make significant 
cuts in Social Security or else they want to privatize Social Security 
entirely. Here is the point: They understand that if we divert funding 
that is supposed to go into the Social Security trust fund, which is 
what this payroll tax holiday does, this is money that goes into the 
Social Security trust fund that is now being diverted, cut back, in 
order to provide financial support for workers--but that is a lot of 
money not going into the trust fund.

What the President and others are saying is not to worry because that 
money will be covered by the general fund. That is a very bad and 
dangerous precedent. Up until now, what Social Security has been about 
is 100 percent funding from payroll contributions, not from the general 
tax base. Once again, this is a 1-year program. The loss of revenue 
going into Social Security can be covered by the general fund. But we 
have a $13 trillion national debt. How much longer will the general 
fund put money into Social Security? Is it a good idea for the general 
fund to be doing that?

I would argue this is not a good idea. This is a very dangerous step 
forward for those of us who believe in Social Security. But this is not 
just Bernie Sanders saying this. One of the more effective and I think 
important senior groups in America is called the National Committee to 
Preserve Social Security and Medicare. I don't know exactly how many 
but they have many members all over this country. I know they are 
active in the State of Vermont. I want to read to you from a press 
release they sent out the other day. This is the headline on it, from 
the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare: 
''Cutting Contributions to Social Security Signals the Beginning of the 
End. Payroll Tax Holiday Is Anything But.''

This is what they say. This comes from Barbara Kennelly. Barbara came 
from the House of Representatives. I have known her for years. She is 
now the president and CEO of the National Committee to Preserve Social 
Security and Medicare, one of the strong senior groups in the country.

Even though Social Security contributed nothing to the current 
economic crisis, it has been bartered in a deal that provides deficit-
busting tax cuts for the wealthy. Diverting $120 billion in Social 
Security contributions for a so-called ''tax holiday'' may sound like a 
good deal for workers now, but it's bad business for the program that a 
majority of middle-class seniors will rely upon in the future.

That is what the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and 
Medicare says about that agreement and I agree with them. For all of us 
who understand that Social Security is life and death for tens of 
millions of Americans today and will be vitally important for working 
people as they reach retirement age, it is important that we understand 
that Social Security has done a great job. A few minutes ago the 
Presiding Officer was on the floor talking about the strong work that 
our Federal employees do, and he is absolutely right. Sometimes we also 
take for granted that Social Security has been an enormous success. It 
has done exactly what those people who created it have wanted it to 
do--nothing more, nothing less. It has succeeded. It has taken millions 
of seniors out of poverty and given them an element of security. It has 
also helped people with disabilities maintain their dignity. Widows and 
orphans are also getting help.

For 75 years it has worked well. It has a $2.6 trillion surplus today 
and it can pay out benefits for the next 29 years. It is strong. We 
want to make it stronger. This payroll tax holiday I am afraid is a 
step very much in the wrong direction and that is one of the important 
reasons why this agreement between the President and the Republicans 
should be defeated.

Included in the agreement are a number of business tax cuts. I am not 
going to be here to say that some of them may not work. Some of them 
may work. Some will work better than others. There is a whole list of 
them. But this is what I will say. Economists on both ends of the 
political spectrum believe that if we are serious about addressing the 
horrendous economic crisis we are in now, 9.8 percent unemployment, 
there are far more effective ways of creating the jobs we have to 
create than those tax proposals. With corporate America already sitting 
on close to $2 trillion cash on hand, it is not that our friends in 
corporate America don't have any money, we have to help them. They have 
$2 trillion cash on hand. The problem is not in my view that corporate 
taxes are too high; it is that the middle class simply doesn't have the 
money to purchase the goods and products that make our economy go and 
create jobs.

I think if our goal is to create the millions and millions of jobs we 
need, and if our goal is to make our country stronger internationally 
in a very tough global economy, I would much prefer, and I think most 
economists


would agree with me that a better way to do that, to create the 
millions of jobs we have to create, is to invest heavily in our 
infrastructure.

The truth is--and I don't think anyone disputes this, the 
infrastructure in the United States is crumbling, and I will go into 
more detail about that later.

I have some very good information on it. But you do not have to be a 
civil engineer to know that. All you have to do is get in your car 
today and drive someplace in my State and all over this country. What 
you are going to see are roads that are in disrepair. You are going to 
see bridges that, in some cases, have actually been shut down. You are 
going to see water systems--I remember I was in Rutland, VT, the second 
or third largest city in the State of Vermont, and the mayor showed me 
a piece of pipe, an old piece of pipe.

He said: You know, the engineer who helped develop this water system 
and lay this pipe, after he did this work for Rutland, he went off to 
fight in the war.

I knew there was a catch line coming. I said: What war was it?

He said: It was the Civil War.

So you are talking about water pipe being in Rutland, VT--and this is 
true all over the United States--laid in the Civil War. The result is, 
we lose an enormous amount of clean water every day through leaks and 
water pipes bursting all over the United States of America.

Well, we can put people to work improving our water systems, our 
wastewater plants. It is a very expensive proposition to develop a good 
wastewater plant. I was a mayor, you were a Governor, Mr. President. It 
is an expensive proposition for roads, bridges. Furthermore, I do not 
have to tell anybody here, our rail system, which used to be the 
greatest rail system in the world, is now falling way behind every 
other major country on Earth.

As a result of the stimulus package, we did a whole lot of very good 
things in the State of Vermont. One of the things we were able to do 
was use $50 million of Federal funds and private money to make major 
repair on one of our important railways in the State.

But we remain far behind most other countries around the 
industrialized world. China is exploding in terms of the number of 
high-speed rail lines they have. We have to do better. Our airports 
need work. Our air controllers need to be updated in terms of the 
technology they have and use to make our flights safe.

The point is, what most economists would tell you is when you invest 
in infrastructure, you get a bigger bang for the buck. You create more 
jobs for your investment than, in most instances, giving a variety of 
tax breaks to the corporate world.

Second of all, and not unimportantly, when you invest in 
infrastructure, you are improving the future of this country. You are 
making us more productive. It is not just creating jobs, it is creating 
jobs for very specific purposes, which makes our Nation more productive 
and efficient.

Thirdly, let me tell you something. As a former mayor, infrastructure 
does not get better if you ignore it. You can turn your back, if you 
are a mayor or Governor, on the roads and the highways because you do 
not have the money to fix them today, but they are not going to get 
better next year. At some point, they are going to have to be repaired 
and fixed. We may as well do that right now.

So I believe the money, the very substantial sums of money in this 
agreement between the President and the Republicans, which goes into 
tax breaks for corporate America, could be effectively spent on 
infrastructure.

The fifth point I want to make in opposition to this agreement and 
what we have heard from the President and others is that this is a 
compromise. You cannot get everything you want. Well, you cannot get 
everything you want around here is true, but one of the examples of 
compromise is an extension of unemployment benefits for 13 months.

Well, let me be very clear. In the midst of a serious and major 
recession, at a time when millions of our fellow Americans are not only 
out of work through no fault of their own, but they have been out of 
work for a very long time, it would be, in my view, immoral and wrong 
to turn our backs on those workers. Their unemployment benefits are 
going to be running out soon. It is absolutely imperative that we 
extend those unemployment benefits for the 2 million workers who would 
lose them.

But here is the point I want to make. Some people say this is a 
compromise. Well, the Republicans gave on unemployment; the President 
gave on extending tax breaks for the rich, et cetera. But here is the 
point. I do not believe, honestly, that the Republican support now for 
extending unemployment benefits constitutes much of a compromise 
because the truth is, for the past 40 years, under both Democratic and 
Republican administrations, under the leadership in the Senate and the 
House of Democrats or Republicans, it has been bipartisan policy that 
whenever the unemployment rate has been above 7.2 percent, unemployment 
insurance has always been extended. So what we have had is 
longstanding, bipartisan policy. That is what we have always done. That 
is what we should be doing in the future. I do not regard Republicans 
now supporting what their party has always supported, extending 
unemployment benefits when unemployment becomes very high--I do not see 
that as a compromise. I see that as what has been going on in this 
country and in the Senate for four decades.

I have talked about the negative aspects of this proposal. But I am 
going to be the first to admit that, of course, there are positive and 
good agreements in this. And what are they? What are some of the 
positive aspects of this agreement? Let me just tick them off.

No. 1, I believe very strongly, and I know the President does, it is 
absolutely imperative that we extend middle-class tax cuts for 98 
percent of the American people. I do not think there has been any 
debate about that.

When median family income has gone down by over $2,000 during the 
Bush years, when millions of our people today are working longer hours 
for low wages, when people cannot afford to send their kids to college 
or to take care of childcare, I think it makes absolute sense. I do not 
think anyone will argue it is absolutely imperative that we extend 
middle-class tax cuts. That is what this provision does. That is the 
right thing.

Furthermore, in this agreement we have an extension of the earned-
income tax credit for working Americans, and the child and college tax 
credit are also in there. Every one of these agreements is very 
important. These programs will keep millions of Americans from slipping 
out of the middle class and into poverty. They will allow millions of 
Americans to send their kids to college.

So I am not here to say there is not anything of value in this 
agreement between the President and the Republicans. There are, and we 
have to fight to make sure all of those programs remain in the final 
package when it is passed--when the final package is passed. But when 
we look at the overall agreement, we must put it in a broader context; 
that is, what will the passage of this legislation mean for the future 
of our country?

In that area, if you look at it in that context, I think the evidence 
is pretty strong it is not just a good agreement and not something that 
should be passed. The passage of this agreement would mean we would 
continue the Bush policy of trickle-down economics for at least 2 more 
years. That is not a good thing to do because, I think, as most 
Americans know, that philosophy, that economic approach, simply did not 
work. The evidence is quite overwhelming. I do not think there is much 
debate, when median family income during Bush's 8 years goes down by 
$2,200, when we end up losing over 600,000 private sector jobs, and all 
of the job growth was in the Federal level, I do not see how anybody 
would want to continue that philosophy. But that, in essence, is what 
will happen if this agreement is passed.

Now, I want to make another point about what happens if--if, and I 
will do my best to prevent this from happening--but what would happen 
if this agreement would pass? Does anybody seriously believe our 
Republican colleagues would then say: OK, well, we have an extension of 
tax breaks for the very richest people. We have lowered the tax rate on 
the estate tax. Those are good victories for millionaires and


billionaires. We are going to go home now. We are not going to continue 
the fight.

I do not think so. We are already hearing sounds about where our 
Republican friends want to go. The President put together what I 
thought was a very poor deficit reduction commission. I thought the 
folks on it were not reflective of the American people. I thought there 
was very much a big business, corporate partiality there.

The initiatives that came out of that commission--which, fortunately, 
did not get the 14 votes they needed--suggest to me that those of us 
who are concerned about protecting the needs of the middle class and 
working families are going to have to push back pretty hard for what is 
coming down the pike.

I think what we will be seeing is--if this proposal negotiated 
between the President and the Republicans is passed, what you will be 
seeing within a few months are folks coming on the floor of the Senate, 
and this is what they will say: You know what. The deficit is high. The 
national debt is too high. And, yes--oh, yes--we drove the national 
debt up by giving tax breaks to millionaires. That is the way it goes. 
But we are going to have to deal with our national debt.

The Republicans will tell you: Oh, we have a great plan to deal with 
it. We are giving tax breaks to millionaires. But now what we are going 
to have to do is start making deep cuts in Social Security, and that 
deficit reduction commission started paving the way for that, very 
substantial cuts in Social Security.

Maybe we will have to raise the retirement age in Social Security to 
69 or 70. Maybe we will have to make cuts in Medicare. Maybe we will 
have to make cuts in Medicaid. I think we are beginning to see, in the 
State of Arizona now, what goes on when you make deep cuts in Medicaid.

In Arizona right now there are people who are in line who need 
transplants, who will die if they do not get transplants, as a result 
of legislation they passed there. They are saying to people, young 
people: Sorry, we cannot afford to give you a transplant, and you are 
going to have to die.

Well, is that what we are looking forward to saying all over America? 
I certainly will do everything I can to prevent that.

We are certainly going to see a tax on environmental protection, on 
education. Some of us believe if this country is going to prosper and 
succeed in the global economy, we have to have the best educational 
system in the world from childcare through college.

Right now, it is extremely difficult for middle-class families to 
send their kids to college. Does anyone have any doubt whatsoever that 
our Republican friends are not going to come back here and say: Oh, we 
cannot afford to raise Pell Grants as we have in recent years. We 
cannot afford to support working families who have their kids in 
childcare. Cut. Cut. Cut.

That is insanity. I am being honest about it. So I would suggest 
their argument is that we have a high deficit and a high national debt; 
that if we pass this agreement and the national debt goes higher, it 
only gives them more impetus to go forward to cut programs that benefit 
working families and the middle class.

Let me also say there is no doubt in my mind what many--not all but 
many--of my Republican colleagues want to do; that is, they want to 
move this country back into the 1920s when essentially we had an 
economic and political system which was controlled by big money 
interests; where working people and the middle class had no programs to 
sustain them when things got bad, when they got old, and when they got 
sick; when labor unions were very hard to come by because of antiworker 
legislation. That is what they want. They do not believe in things like 
the Environmental Protection Agency. They do not believe in things like 
Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, Federal aid to education. That is 
the fight we will be waging.

I think to surrender on this issue is to simply say we are going to 
be waging fight after fight, starting within a couple of months.

President Obama has said he fought as hard as he could against the 
Republican tax breaks for the wealthy and for an extension in 
unemployment. Well, maybe. But the reality is that fight cannot simply 
be waged inside the Beltway. Our job is to appeal to the vast majority 
of the American people to stand up and to say: Wait a minute. I do not 
want to see our national debt explode. I do not want to see my kids and 
grandchildren paying higher taxes in order to give tax breaks to 
millionaires and billionaires.

The vast majority of the American people do not support that 
agreement in terms of giving tax breaks to the very rich. Our job is to 
rally those people. I would like very much to see the American people 
saying to our Republican colleagues and some Democratic colleagues: 
Excuse me. Don't force my kids to have a lower standard of living in 
order to give tax breaks to the richest people.

What the President and all of us should be doing is going out and 
saying to those people: Call the Members of the Senate, call the 
Members of the House and say: Excuse me. How about representing the 
middle class and working families, for a change, rather than the 
wealthiest people. That is what democracy is about.

This fight is not going to be won inside the beltway in a Senate 
debate. It is going to be won when the American people stand and say: 
Wait a second. We cannot continue to give tax breaks to people who are 
doing phenomenally well right now. We cannot give tax breaks to the 
rich when we already have the most unequal distribution of income of 
any major country on Earth. The top 1 percent earns 23 percent of all 
income in America, more than the bottom 50 percent. They don't need 
more tax breaks to be paid for by our kids and grandchildren.

The vast majority of people are behind us on this issue, but they 
have to make their voices heard to their Senators, to their 
Congressmen. When they do, I believe we can come forward with an 
agreement which protects the middle-class and working families and is 
not a boondoggle for the wealthiest people.

It is important to put the agreement the President struck with 
Republicans in a broader context. We can't just look at the agreement 
unto itself. We have to look at it within the context of what is going 
on in the country today, both economically and politically. I think I 
speak for millions of Americans. There is a war going on in this 
country. I am not referring to the war in Iraq or the war in 
Afghanistan. I am talking about a war being waged by some of the 
wealthiest and most powerful people against working families, against 
the disappearing and shrinking middle class of our country. The 
billionaires of America are on the warpath. They want more and more and 
more. That has everything to do with this agreement reached between 
Republicans and the President.

In 2007, the top 1 percent of all income earners made 23.5 percent of 
all income. Let me repeat that: The top 1 percent earned over 23 
percent of all income; that is, more than the bottom 50 percent. One 
percent here; fifty percent here. But for the very wealthy, that is 
apparently not enough. The percentage of income going to the top 1 
percent nearly tripled since the 1970s. All over this country people 
are angry, frustrated. It is true in Vermont. I am sure it is true in 
Virginia. It is true all over America. But one of the reasons people 
are angry and frustrated is they are working incredibly hard. In 
Vermont, I can tell my colleagues, there are people who don't work one 
job, two jobs; there are people working three jobs and four jobs, 
trying to cobble together an income in order to support their families. 
I suspect that goes on all across the country. While people are working 
harder and harder, in many cases their income is going down. The fact 
is, 80 percent of all new income earned from 1980 to 2005 has gone to 
the top 1 percent. Let me repeat that because that is an important 
fact. It explains why the American people are feeling as angry as they 
are. They are working hard, but they are not going anyplace. In some 
cases, in many cases, their standard of living is actually going down. 
Eighty percent of all income in recent years has gone to the top 1 
percent. The richer people become much richer, the middle class 
shrinks. Millions of Americans fall out of the middle class and into 
poverty.

That is not apparently enough for our friends at the top who have a 
religious ferocity in terms of greed. They


need more, more. It is similar to an addiction. Fifty million is not 
enough. They need $100 million. One hundred million is not enough; they 
need 1 billion. One billion is not enough. I am not quite sure how much 
they need. When will it stop?

Today, in terms of wealth as opposed to income, the top 1 percent now 
owns more wealth than the bottom 90 percent. When we went to school, we 
used to read in the textbooks about Latin America, and they used to 
refer to some of the countries there as ''banana republics,'' countries 
in which a handful of families controlled the economic and political 
life of the nation. I don't wish to upset the American people, but we 
are not all that far away from that reality today. The top 1 percent 
has seen a tripling of the percentage of income they earn. Since the 
1970s, the top 1 percent owning 23 percent of all income, more than the 
bottom 50 percent. The top 1 percent now owns more wealth than the 
bottom 90 percent. That is not the foundation of a democratic society. 
That is the foundation for an oligarchic society. The rich get richer. 
The middle class shrinks. Poverty increases. Apparently, God is not 
good enough yet for some of the richest people.

I say ''some of the richest'' because there are a lot of folks with a 
lot of money who do love this country, they are not into greed, but 
there are some who are. More, more more, that is what they need.

For example--this galls me and galls many of the people in this 
country--the horrendous recession we are in right now, where millions 
and millions of people have lost their jobs, their savings, their 
homes, this recession was caused by the greed and recklessness and 
illegal behavior on Wall Street. These guys, through their greed, 
created the most severe economic recession since the Great Depression. 
The American people bailed them out. Now, 2 years after the bailout, 
they are giving themselves more compensation than they ever have. They 
are saying to the American people: Sorry we caused this recession 
because of our greed. Sorry you are unemployed. Sorry you lost your 
house. But that is not all that important. What is important is that I, 
on Wall Street, continue to get millions of dollars in compensation and 
in bonuses, that I have big parties. How can I get by on one house? I 
need 5 houses, 10 houses. I need three jet planes to take me all over 
the world. Sorry. We have the money. We have the power. We have the 
lobbyists here on Wall Street. Tough luck. That is the world, get used 
to it.

The rich get richer. The middle class shrinks. Not enough, not 
enough. The very rich seem to want more and more and more, and they are 
prepared to dismantle the existing political and social order in order 
to get it. So we have the economics and distribution of income and 
wealth as one thing, but then we must discuss politics.

What happened last year, as I think most Americans know, is the 
Supreme Court made a very strange decision. The Supreme Court decided 
that corporations are people and they have the right of free speech and 
the right without disclosure--all of this is through the Citizens 
United Supreme Court decision--to put as much money as they want into 
campaigns all over the country. In this last campaign, that is what we 
saw: Billionaires, in secret, pouring money into campaigns all over the 
country. Does that sound like democracy to anybody in America; that we 
have a handful of billionaires probably dividing up the country? I will 
put this amount in Virginia, California, wherever.

That is what they were able to do. The rich get richer, and they 
don't sit on this money. What they then do is use it to elect people 
who support them and to unelect people who oppose their agenda and they 
use their political power to get legislation passed which makes the 
wealthy even wealthier.

One of the manifestations of that is, in fact, the agreement reached 
between the President and the Republican leadership. The wealthy 
contribute huge sums of money into campaigns. The wealthy have all 
kinds of lobbyists around here through corporate America. What they are 
going to get out of this agreement are huge tax breaks that benefit 
themselves. That is not what we should be supporting.

We should understand this agreement is just the beginning of an 
assault on legislation and programs that have benefited the American 
people for 70 or 80 years. Mark my words, there will be an intensive 
effort to privatize Social Security and Medicare and Medicaid. 
Furthermore, it is part of the Republican agenda. They want to expand--
and it is not only Republicans here, some Democrats as well--our 
disastrous trade policies so large companies can continue their efforts 
to outsource American jobs to China and other low-wage countries. Any 
objective analysis of our trade policies has shown it has been a 
grotesque failure for ordinary Americans. It is hard to calculate 
exactly, but I think it is fair to say we have lost millions of decent-
paying jobs. During the Bush years alone, some 48,000 factories shut 
down. We went from 19 million manufacturing jobs to 12 million 
manufacturing jobs. Historically, in this country, manufacturing jobs 
were the backbone of the working class. That is how people made it into 
the middle class. That is how they had decent health care benefits and 
pensions. Every day we are seeing those jobs disappear because 
corporate America would prefer to do business in China or other low-
wage countries.

I returned from a trip to Vietnam last year, a beautiful country. 
People there work for 25, 30 cents an hour. Sometimes when you go to a 
store, you may see a shirt made in Bangladesh. That shirt, in all 
likelihood, is made by a young girl who came in from the countryside to 
one of the factories there. The good news is that in Bangladesh, the 
minimum wage was doubled. It went from 11 cents an hour to 23 cents an 
hour. Are American workers going to be able to compete against 
desperate people who make 23 cents an hour?


So my view--and I think it reflects the views of the American 
people--is that of course we want to see the people of Bangladesh and 
the people of China do well. But they do not have to do well at the 
expense of the American middle class. We do not have to engage in a 
race to the bottom. Our goal is to bring them up, not us down. But one 
of the results of our disastrous trade policies is that in many 
instances wages in the United States have gone down.

I believe in the coming months you are going to see an 
intensification of efforts to expand unfettered free trade. I think 
that will be a continuation of a disastrous policy for American 
workers.

Let me personalize this a little bit. This gentleman, shown in this 
picture I have in the Chamber--I have no personal animus toward him at 
all; I think I met him once in a large room. His name is James Dimon. 
He is the CEO of JPMorgan Chase. Over the past 5 years, Mr. Dimon, who 
is the CEO of JPMorgan Chase, received $89 million in total 
compensation--a bank that we now know received hundreds of billions in 
low-interest loans and other financial assistance from the Federal 
Reserve and the Treasury Department.

So Mr. Dimon received $89 million in total compensation. His bank was 
bailed out big time by the taxpayers. But under the legislation the 
President negotiated with the Republicans, Mr. Dimon--I use him just as 
one example for thousands; nothing personal to Mr. Dimon--will receive 
$1.1 million in tax breaks. So $1.1 million in tax breaks for a major 
CEO on Wall Street, who over the last 5 years received $89 million in 
total compensation.

Meanwhile--just to contrast what is going on here--2 days ago, I 
brought before the Senate legislation which would provide a $250 one-
time check to over 50 million seniors and disabled veterans, who for 
the last 2 years have not received a COLA on their Social Security. 
Many of those seniors and disabled vets are trying to get by on 
$14,000, $15,000, $18,000 a year. The total package for that bill was 
approximately $14 billion that would go out to over 50 million seniors 
and disabled vets. We won that vote on the floor of the Senate 53 to 
45. But just because you get 53 votes in the Senate does not mean you 
win. Because the Republicans filibustered, I needed 60 votes. I could 
not get 60 votes. I could not get one Republican vote to provide a $250 
check to a disabled veteran trying to get by on $15,000 or $16,000 a 
year.

But Mr. Dimon, who made $89 million in the last 5 years, will get a 
$1 million tax deduction if this agreement is passed. Now, that may 
make sense to


some people. It does not make a lot of sense to me.

Again, I have no particular knowledge, animus--I do not know if I 
ever met John Mack in my life. He is the CEO of Morgan Stanley. In 
2006, he received a $40 million bonus, which at the time was the 
largest bonus ever given to a Wall Street executive.

Two years after receiving this bonus, Morgan Stanley received some $2 
trillion in low-interest loans and billions from the Treasury 
Department. Instead of losing his job, under this agreement, Mr. Mack 
will be receiving an estimated $926,000 tax break next year. 
Congratulations, Mr. Mack. You are doing fine. We could not get $250 
for a disabled vet.

Over the past 5 years, Ken Lewis, the former CEO of Bank of America, 
received over $165 million in total compensation. In 2008, Bank of 
America received hundreds of billions in taxpayer-backed loans from the 
Fed and a $45 billion bailout from the Treasury Department.

What will Mr. Lewis receive if the agreement negotiated between the 
President and the Republicans goes forth? He will get a $713,000 tax 
cut.

And on and on it goes. I did not mean to specifically pick on these 
guys. Some of the wealthiest people in the country will be receiving a 
million-dollar-plus tax break. So we as a nation have to decide whether 
that makes a lot of sense. I think it does not.

Let me mention that a couple weeks ago the Fed, the Federal Reserve, 
published on their Web site some 21,000 transactions that took place 
during the Wall Street meltdown period. That disclosure was made 
possible as part of a provision that I put into the financial reform 
bill because I thought it was important the American people, for the 
first time, lift the veil of secrecy at the Fed and get a sense of the 
kind of money that was lent out by the Fed and who received that money.

What is very interesting is that the American people and the media 
have focused on the $700 billion Wall Street bailout now known as TARP. 
I happen to have voted against that agreement, but, in fairness, that 
agreement was pretty transparent. The Treasury Department put up on 
their Web site all of those banks and financial institutions that 
received the money. If you want to know where the money went, it is 
right up there on the Treasury Department's Web site.

But at the same time, a bigger transaction than TARP was taking 
place, which got relatively little attention, and that was the role the 
Fed was playing in terms of the Wall Street bailout.

While the TARP issue was being debated during that period, Ben 
Bernanke, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Tim Geithner, who was 
then the president of the New York Fed, and a handful of other very 
powerful people were sitting behind closed doors getting ready to lend 
out trillions--underline trillions--of taxpayer dollars to large 
financial institutions and corporations, with no debate going on in 
Congress, no debate whatsoever.

On March 3, 2009--and I am a member of the Senate Budget Committee--I 
asked the Fed Chairman, Mr. Bernanke, to tell the American people the 
names of the financial institutions that received this unprecedented 
backdoor bailout from the Fed, how much they received, and the exact 
terms of this assistance. I will never forget that. I asked Mr. 
Bernanke for that information. He said: Senator, no, not going to give 
it to you, not going to make it public.

Well, on that day, I introduced legislation to make that information 
public, working with a number of Members of the House and the Senate. 
Some strange bedfellows--conservatives and progressives--came together 
on this issue. We managed to get in the Wall Street reform bill a 
disclosure provision, and on December 1--last week--that information 
was made public. Let me talk a little bit about what was in that 
information made public by the Fed.

After years of stonewalling, the American people have learned the 
incredible, jaw-dropping details of the Fed's multimillion-dollar 
bailout of Wall Street and corporate America--not just Wall Street. It 
is one of the things we learned. As a result of this disclosure, in my 
view--we are going to get into what was in what we learned--Congress 
has to take a very extensive look at all aspects of how the Federal 
Reserve functions and how we can make our financial institutions more 
responsive to the needs of ordinary Americans and small businesses.

What have we learned from the disclosure of December 1? This is based 
on an examination of over 21,000 separate Federal Reserve transactions. 
More work, more research needs to be done. But this is what we have 
learned so far.

As it turns out, while small business owners in the State of Vermont 
and throughout this country were being turned down for loans, not only 
did large financial institutions--and I am talking about every major 
financial institution--receive substantial help from the Fed, but also 
some of the largest corporations in this country--not financial 
institutions--also received help in terms of very low interest loans.

So you have every major financial institution, you have some of our 
largest private corporations, but here is something we also learned, 
and that is that this bailout impacted not just American banks and 
corporations but also foreign banks and foreign corporations as well, 
to the tune of many billions of dollars.

Then, on top of that, a number of the wealthiest individuals in this 
country also received a major bailout from the Fed. The ''emergency 
response,'' which is what the Fed described their action as during the 
Wall Street collapse, appears to any objective observer to have been 
the clearest case that I can imagine of socialism for the very rich and 
rugged free market capitalism for everybody else.

In other words, if you are a huge financial institution, whose 
recklessness and greed caused this great recession, no problem. You are 
going to receive a substantial amount of help from the taxpayers of 
this country. If you are a major American corporation, such as General 
Electric or McDonald's or Caterpillar or Harley-Davidson or Verizon, no 
problem. You are going to receive a major handout from the U.S. 
Government.

But if you are a small business in Vermont or California or Virginia, 
well, guess what, you are on your own because right now we know one of 
the real impediments to the kind of job creation we need in this 
country is that small businesses are not getting the loans they need.

Furthermore, what we now know is the extent of the bailout for the 
large financial corporations. Goldman Sachs received nearly $600 
billion. Morgan Stanley received nearly $2 trillion. Citigroup received 
$1.8 trillion. Bear Stearns received nearly $1 trillion. And Merrill 
Lynch received some $1.5 trillion in short-term loans from the Fed.

But I think what is most surprising for the American people is not 
just the bailout of Wall Street and the financial institutions, and the 
bailout of large American corporations such as General Electric, but I 
think the American people would find it very strange that at a time 
when the American automobile sector was on the verge of collapse--and 
goodness only knows how many thousands and thousands of jobs we have 
lost in automobile manufacturing in this country--the Federal Reserve 
was also bailing out Toyota and Mitsubishi, two Japanese carmakers, by 
purchasing nearly $5 billion worth of their commercial paper from 
November 5, 2008, through January 30, 2009. While virtually no 
American-made cars or products of any kind are bought in Japan, I think 
the American people would be shocked to learn that the Fed extended 
over $380 billion to the Central Bank of Japan to bail out banks in 
that country.


Furthermore, I think the American people are interested to know that 
the Fed bailed out the Korea Development Bank, the wholly owned, state-
owned Bank of South Korea, by purchasing over $2 billion of its 
commercial paper. The sole purpose of the Korea Development Bank is to 
finance and manage major industrial projects to enhance the national 
economy not of the United States of America but of South Korea. I am 
not against South Korea. I wish the South Koreans all the luck in the 
world. But it should not be the taxpayers of the United States lending 
their banks' money to create jobs in South Korea. I would suggest maybe 
we want to create jobs in the United States of America. At the same 
time, the Fed also extended over $40 billion


for the Central Bank of South Korea so that it had enough money to bail 
out its own banks.

At a time when small businesses in Vermont and all over this country 
cannot get the loans they need to expand their businesses, I think the 
American people would find it extremely--I don't know what the word 
is--maybe amusing that the Fed bailed out the state-owned Bank of 
Bavaria--not Pennsylvania, not California, but Bavaria--by purchasing 
over $2.2 billion of its commercial paper.

Furthermore, when we cannot get support on the floor of this Senate 
to extend unemployment benefits to millions of Americans who are on the 
verge of seeing them expire, I think the American people would find it 
incomprehensible that the Fed chose to bail out the Arab Banking 
Corporation based in Bahrain by providing them with over $23 billion in 
loans with an interest rate as low as one-quarter of 1 percent. So 
small businessmen all over America: Maybe you have to run to Bahrain 
and work with the Arab Banking Corporation there to get some pretty 
good loans. But it would be nice if maybe the Fed would start to pay 
attention to banks in this country.

Furthermore, the Fed extended over $9.6 billion to the Central Bank 
of Mexico.

What is interesting about all of this is that we had a very vigorous 
debate here in the Senate and in the House over the $700 billion TARP 
program. Every person in America could turn on C-SPAN and hear that 
debate. They could hear what President Bush had to say, hear what then-
Senator Obama and Senator McCain had to say. It was all pretty public. 
But what took place at the Fed, which, in fact, amounted to a larger 
bailout, was done behind closed doors. Over $3 trillion was lent with 
zero transparency. In fact, as a result of this recent disclosure--this 
is the first time we have gotten a glimpse of the magnitude and the 
particulars, the specificities of where that money was lent, and I 
think this is not a good thing for this country. Again, I voted against 
the bailout of Wall Street, but the debate was open and public. People 
wrote to their Senators and called their Senators. That is called 
democracy. After the TARP bailout took place, all of the loans were put 
up on the Web site. Transparency--the American people knew who got the 
money. But the actions of the Fed were done behind closed doors, and, 
in my view--it is an issue we are studying right now--I think there 
were significant conflicts of interest. I think we had people sitting 
there at the New York Fed who were beneficiaries of this bailout, and 
that is an issue we need to explore. I should tell my colleagues that 
as part of the provision we got into the financial reform bill, the GAO 
is, in fact, doing just that--investigating possible conflicts of 
interest at the Fed with regard to this bailout.

I think the question the American people are asking as they read 
about what the Fed did during the financial crisis is whether the Fed 
has now become the central bank of the world without any debate on the 
floor of the Senate or the Congress and without the knowledge of the 
American people. I think that is wrong. So I hope, out of this effort 
in bringing disclosure and transparency to the Fed, that one of the 
things that will come will be more transparency at the Fed.

As I indicated a moment ago, the Fed said this bailout was necessary 
in order to prevent the world economy from going over a cliff. But 3 
years after the start of the recession, millions of Americans remain 
unemployed and have lost their homes, their life savings, and their 
ability to send their kids to college. Meanwhile, huge banks and large 
corporations have returned to making incredible profits and paying 
their executives recordbreaking compensation packages, as if the 
financial crisis they started never occurred.

What this recent disclosure tells us, among many other things, is 
that despite this huge taxpayer bailout, the Fed did not make the 
appropriate demands on these financial institutions which would have 
been necessary to rebuild our economy and protect the needs of ordinary 
Americans. In other words, what they simply did was give out billions 
and billions of dollars which were used in the self-interests of these 
financial institutions rather than saying: The American people who are 
hurting are bailing you out, and now that they have bailed you out, 
your responsibility is to do what you can to create jobs and to improve 
the standard of living of the people, many of whose lives you have 
severely impacted.

Let me give a few examples of what could have been done and what 
should be done. At a time when big banks have nearly $1 trillion in 
excess reserves parked at the Fed, the Fed has not required these 
institutions to increase lending to small and medium-sized businesses 
as a condition of the bailout. In other words, instead of the Fed just 
giving money to these financial institutions, the Fed should have said: 
We are giving you this money in order to get it into the economy. Start 
providing affordable loans to small businesses.

At a time when large corporations are more profitable than ever, the 
Fed did not demand that corporations that received this backdoor 
bailout create jobs and expand the economy once they returned to 
profitability. So what is going on in America? Unemployment is 
officially at 9.8 percent and in a real sense probably at 15 or 16 
percent, but Wall Street is now doing fine.

A few years ago, Wall Street earned some 40 percent of all profits in 
America, and they are doing great. But what the Fed should have done 
and should do now is to tell Wall Street: You are part of the economy. 
You are not an isolated area just living for yourselves. You have to be 
a part of the productive economy. You have to lend money to small 
businesses to start creating jobs.

My office intends to investigate whether these secret Fed loans, in 
some cases, turned out to be direct corporate welfare to big banks that 
may have used those loans not to reinvest in the economy but, rather, 
to lend back to the Federal Government at a higher rate of interest by 
purchasing Treasury securities. Now, we don't know that. Maybe that is 
true, maybe it is not true, but we will take a look at it. In other 
words, did the Fed give one-half of 1 percent loans to a bank and that 
bank then purchased a Treasury security at 2 or 3 percent? If so, you 
have a 2-percent profit margin, and that is nothing but corporate 
welfare. The goal of the bailout was not to make Wall Street richer; 
the goal was to expand our economy and put people to work.

Furthermore, we know that as part of the TARP agreement, there was an 
effort to say to the financial institutions: We are not bailing you out 
in order for you to get huge compensation packages. We are not going to 
give you Federal money so you can make all kinds of money. We put 
limitations on executive compensation.

Did the Fed play the role of allowing some of the large financial 
institutions to pay back the TARP money, use the Fed money, and then 
continue with their very high executive compensation? We don't know, 
but it is worth investigating.

Furthermore--and this is an issue I have worked on for a number of 
years. We know every major religion on Earth--Christianity, Judaism, 
Islam, you name it--has always felt that usury is immoral. What we mean 
by usury is that when someone doesn't have a lot of money and you loan 
them money, you don't get blood out of a stone. You can't ask for 
outrageously high interest rates when somebody is hurting. That is 
immoral. Every major religion, all great philosophers have written 
about this. Yet today we have millions of people in our country--and I 
hear from Vermonters every week on this issue--who are paying 25 
percent or 30 percent and in some cases even higher interest rates on 
their credit cards--20 percent, 30 percent interest rates. That is 
getting blood out of a stone. Yet many of the credit card companies 
were bailed out by the taxpayers of this country. What the Fed must do 
is say to those companies: Sorry, you can't continue to rip off the 
American people and charge them 25 percent or 30 percent interest 
rates.

As it happens, the four largest banks in this country, which are Bank 
of America, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, and Citigroup, issue half of 
all mortgages in this country. Four huge financial institutions issue 
half of all mortgages in this country. That unto itself is a huge 
problem. They issue half of all mortgages, two-thirds of all credit 
cards. That speaks to another issue about the need to start bringing


up these financial institutions. But when you have a handful of banks 
that received huge bailouts from the Federal Government that are 
issuing two-thirds of the credit cards in this country, it seems to me 
to be somewhat absurd that the Fed did not say to them: Sorry, you 
can't charge people 25 or 30 percent interest rates on your credit 
cards. The same principle applies to mortgages. I don't have to tell 
anybody in this country that we have seen millions of folks lose their 
homes through foreclosure, and once again we see that the four largest 
banks in this country--Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, 
and Citigroup--issue half of all mortgages. Four banks issue two-thirds 
of the credit cards and half of the mortgages. We bail these financial 
institutions out. Don't they have some responsibility to the American 
people? How many more Americans could have remained in their homes if 
the Fed had required those bailed-out banks to reduce mortgage payments 
as a condition of receiving these secret loans?

In terms of the interest rates on credit cards, a lot of people don't 
know this, but right now the banks are able to charge as much as they 
want to charge, but, in fact, credit unions are not.

Right now, we are looking at a situation where over one-quarter of 
all credit cardholders in this country are now paying interest rates 
above 20 percent and in some cases as high as 79 percent. In my view, 
when credit card companies charge over 20 percent interest, they are 
not engaged in the business of making credit available to their 
customers; they are involved in extortion and loan-sharking--nothing 
essentially different than gangsters who charge outrageously high 
prices for their loans and who break kneecaps when their victims can't 
afford to pay them. So that is where we are right now.

I get calls--and I am sure every other Senator gets calls--from 
constituents who are very upset. They are going deeper and deeper into 
debt because they can't pay 25 or 30 percent interest rates on their 
credit cards. We bailed out the credit card companies. There was no 
provision that said: Stop ripping off the American people. Stop these 
companies from committing usury.

We are working on legislation that would say to these private banks 
not to charge any more money for the credit they provide than do the 
credit unions. It is going to be a tough fight because the lobbyists 
from Wall Street are all over this place. Wall Street spends huge 
amounts of money in campaign contributions, and it is going to be 
tough. But I think we need to pass that. I think the Fed needs to be 
much more active, in terms of what kinds of interest rates credit card 
companies should be paying.

Today, I am going to focus a lot, obviously, on an agreement reached 
between the President and the Republican leadership, which I think does 
not serve the American people well. One of the areas, as I mentioned 
earlier, where I think we could do a lot better in addressing the 
crisis of high unemployment in this Nation is by investing the kinds of 
money we need in our infrastructure.

According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, they graded 
America's roads, public transit, and aviation with a D. They said we 
must invest $2.2 trillion over the next 5 years simply to get a 
passable grade. Unfortunately, in the agreement struck between the 
President and the Republican leadership, to the best of my knowledge, 
not one nickel is going into investing in our infrastructure.

Let me tell you why we need to invest in infrastructure. A, that is 
where you can create the millions of jobs we desperately need in order 
to get us out of this recession. Second of all, we need to invest in 
infrastructure because, if we don't, we will become less and less 
competitive internationally.

According to the National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue 
Study Commission, $225 billion is needed annually for the next 50 years 
to upgrade our surface transportation system to a state of good repair 
and create a more advanced system. The Federal Highway Administration 
reports that $130 billion must be invested annually for a 20-year 
period to improve our bridges and the operational performance of our 
highways. At present, one in four of the Nation's bridges is either 
structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. One in four of our 
bridges is either structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. Yet 
in this agreement struck by the President and the Republican 
leadership, to the best of my knowledge, not one nickel is going into 
our infrastructure. We need to invest in our infrastructure. We need to 
improve our infrastructure. When we do that, we can create millions of 
jobs.

The Federal Transit Administration says $22 billion must be invested 
annually for a 20-year period to improve conditions and performances 
for our major transit systems. In Vermont, the situation is no 
different than in the rest of the country. Thirty-five percent of 
Vermont's 2,700 bridges--nearly 1,000 bridges--are functionally 
obsolete. In recent years, we have had to shut down bridges, which 
caused a lot of inconvenience to people who live in those areas, to 
workers who had to get to work using a bridge. Nearly half the bridges 
in Vermont have structural deficiencies. Rural transit options are few 
and far between, making rural, low-income Vermonters especially 
vulnerable to spikes in gas prices. In other words, in Vermont, and in 
other areas of rural America, you have one choice in the vast majority 
of cases as to how you get to work. That one choice is that you get in 
your car, you pay $3 for a gallon of gas, and that is it. That is 
because rural transportation in this country is very weak.

We can create jobs building the buses and vans we need, making it 
easier and cheaper for workers in rural America to get to work. In 
urban areas, it is no different. Transit systems in Chicago, New York, 
and even here in Washington, DC, are in disrepair. Let's improve and 
repair them. That makes us more efficient, more productive, and more 
competitive, and it creates jobs now. Not one nickel, as far as I can 
understand, has been invested in our infrastructure in this agreement.

The United States invests just 2.4 percent of GDP in infrastructure; 
whereas, Europe invests twice that amount.

Here is something I think every American should be keenly aware of 
and very worried about. I don't have to tell anybody that the Chinese 
economy is exploding every single day in almost every way. In China, 
they are investing almost four times our rate--or 9 percent--of their 
GDP annually in their infrastructure. Years ago, I was in Shanghai, 
China. I was coming from the airport to downtown as part of a 
congressional delegation. While we were on the bus coming in, my wife 
noticed something. She said: What was that? There was a blur that went 
by the window. Of course, I didn't notice it; she did. It turned out 
that blur was an experimental train they were working on--high-speed 
rail, which is now operational there, and other similar prototypes are 
being developed in China. Here we are, the United States of America, 
which for so many years led the world in so many ways, and now you are 
seeing a newly developing country such as China with high-speed rail 
all over their country, making them more productive and efficient, and 
in our cities, our subways are breaking down. Amtrak is going 50, 60 
miles an hour, and the Chinese and Europeans have trains going hundreds 
of miles an hour.

This is the United States of America. Maybe I am old-fashioned. I 
think we can do it too. I think we can rebuild our rail system, make 
our country more efficient and create jobs.

China invested $186 billion in rail from 2006 to 2009, and according 
to the New York Times, within 2 years, they will open 42 new high-speed 
rail lines, with trains reaching speeds of 200 miles an hour. That is 
China. So I think if China can do it, the United States of America can 
do it. That is the way to rebuild America, make us stronger and create 
jobs.

By 2020, China plans to add 26,000 additional miles of tracks for 
freight and travel, as well as 230,000 miles of new or improved roads, 
and 97 new airports--97 new airports. Does anybody in America have the 
same problem I have when you go to the airport, where you are waiting 
in line and you have to deal with all the problems of older airports? 
China is building 97 new ones. We are not. If we are going to be 
effective in the international economy, and if our kids will have 
decent jobs, it is high


time we woke up and began investing in our infrastructure. So that is 
not only to improve the long-term strength of America, our economic 
prowess, but it is also to create jobs right now that we desperately 
need.

Unfortunately, in this bill, this tax agreement between the President 
and the Republican leadership, there are many billions of dollars going 
into tax breaks for corporations. But there is not a whole lot of 
money--in fact, zero dollars--going into rebuilding our infrastructure.

Similarly--and I know there has been debate since yesterday on this 
issue. There may be a small breakthrough. I don't have to tell 
Americans, least of all the people in Vermont, about what happens when 
the weather gets cold and you are forced to pay very high prices for 
heating oil. The time is long overdue for us to make the investments we 
need to transform our energy system away from coal, away from oil. We 
are spending as a nation--and everybody in America has to appreciate 
this--$350 billion every single year--$1 billion a day, roughly--
importing oil from Saudi Arabia and other foreign countries, in order 
to make our economy go and in order to keep people warm.

Let me be very clear. The royal family of Saudi Arabia, which is our 
major source of oil, is doing just fine. Don't worry about the royal 
family of Saudi Arabia. They have zillions and zillions of dollars. 
Maybe it is a good idea that we seek energy independence, that we break 
our dependence on fossil fuel, and become more energy efficient, which, 
by the way, investing in public transportation certainly will do, and 
we move to sustainable energy, such as wind, solar, geothermal, and 
biomass. Guess what. China is doing that. Many of the solar panels 
coming into this country are not made in the United States but are made 
in China. They are big into wind turbines. I think the time is now for 
us to rebuild our infrastructure and create the jobs we desperately 
need.

Again, unfortunately, despite the enormous infrastructure needs we 
have in this country, this agreement, signed by the President and the 
Republican leadership, does not do that. When we talk about 
transforming our energy system and moving away from fossil fuel and 
making our homes more energy efficient and building solar panels, 
moving toward solar thermal power, in the Southwest of this country--
New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada--we have some of the best solar exposure in 
the entire world. There are estimates that just in the Southwest of 
this country, on Federal land, we can provide 30 percent of the 
electricity American homes need, if we move toward solar thermal. We 
need to invest in our transmission lines.

What we are talking about is massive investment to create jobs, make 
us energy independent, clean up the environment, and deal with the huge 
amount of greenhouse gas emissions which are contributing to global 
warming. That is a win-win-win situation. Yet we are not seeing that in 
this bill.

I wish to tell you something, Mr. President. I will get into this at 
greater length later. When we talk about our good friends in the oil 
industry--and I am not here to make a long speech about BP and what 
they have done in Louisiana, et cetera. I want everybody to know this. 
I will get into this at greater length later. Last year, our friends at 
ExxonMobil--and ExxonMobil has historically been the most profitable 
corporation in the history of the world. Last year, ExxonMobil had, for 
them, a very bad year. They only made $19 billion in profit. Based on 
$19 billion, you might be surprised to know ExxonMobil not only paid 
nothing in taxes, they got a $156 million return from the IRS. How is 
that? For those of you who are working in an office, working in a 
factory, earning your $30,000, $40,000, $50,000, $60,000 a year, you 
pay taxes. But if you are ExxonMobil, and you made $19 billion in 
profits last year, not only did you not pay any taxes this year, you 
got $156 million in return.


It is not just the large oil companies that do not pay their fair 
share of taxes. I am going to get into this a little bit later, but 
when we try to understand why we have such a huge national debt and a 
$1.3 or $1.4 trillion deficit, it is also important to understand that 
many large and profitable corporations avoid virtually all of their tax 
responsibility.

In August 2008, the General Accountability Office issued a report. 
According to this report, two out of every three corporations in the 
United States paid no Federal income taxes between 1998 and 2005. We 
have a $13.7 trillion national debt, and according to a GAO report 
published in August of 2008 two out of every three corporations in the 
United States paid no Federal income taxes between 1998 and 2005. 
Amazingly, these corporations had a combined $2.5 trillion in sales but 
paid no income taxes to the IRS.

Furthermore, according to a report from Citizens For Tax Justice, 82 
Fortune 500 companies in America--I guess that is 82 out of 500--paid 
zero or less in Federal income taxes in at least 1 year from 2001 to 
2003. That is a report from Citizens For Tax Justice. And the Citizens 
For Tax Justice report goes on to say:




 In the years they paid no income tax, these companies 


 earned $102 billion in U.S. profits. But instead of paying 


 $35.6 billion in income taxes, as the statutory 35 percent 


 corporate tax rate seems to require, these companies 


 generated so many excess tax breaks that they received 


 outright tax rebate checks from the U.S. Treasury totaling 


 $12.6 billion.


That is from the Citizens For Tax Justice report.

So when we take a comprehensive look at what is going on in this 
country, why we have a $13.7 trillion national debt, it is terribly 
important to understand that while the middle class pays its share of 
taxes, there are many large corporations that not only are paying 
nothing in taxes, they are getting rebates from the Federal Government.

I will go into greater length later on, but as a member of the Budget 
Committee I can tell you we discuss quite often how every single year--
every single year--corporate interests and wealthy individuals stash 
away huge amounts of money in tax savings in the Cayman Islands, 
Bermuda, and other countries in order to avoid paying their taxes in 
the United States of America. These are American corporations turning 
their back on the American people, saying--as Mrs. Helmsley said so 
many years ago, many of you remember--only small people pay taxes. Only 
the working stiffs out there pay taxes.

If you are a large corporation and you have a good lawyer or a good 
accountant, you know what to do. You invest your money in the Cayman 
Islands and in Bermuda, and you don't have to pay American taxes. But, 
by the way, as the disclosure report last week indicated, no problem; 
you get bailed out. When things get bad, you will be bailed out by the 
American taxpayers. On and on and on it goes. The rich and large 
corporations get richer, the CEOs earn huge compensation packages, and 
when things get bad, don't worry; Uncle Sam and the American taxpayers 
are here to bail you out. But when you are in trouble, well, we just 
can't afford to help you, if you are in the working class or the middle 
class of this country.

I want to return for a moment to the agreement that the President and 
the Republican leadership negotiated because I think that is the issue 
that all of America is now talking about. The President and the 
Republican leadership say it is a good deal. Democrats in the House 
yesterday said: Wait a second. It doesn't look to us like it is a good 
deal. In fact, we don't even want to bring it up on the floor of the 
House. In the Senate, I can tell you there are a number of us--I don't 
know how many--who say: Wait a minute. This is not a good deal for the 
middle class, it is not a good deal for our kids, and it is not a good 
deal for our workers. We can negotiate a better deal. The reason we are 
trying to delay passage of this agreement--and I hope very much it 
doesn't have the votes here--is we want the American people to stand 
and say: Wait a second, it makes no sense to us to be giving huge tax 
breaks to the richest people in this country--literally millionaires 
and billionaires--and driving up the national debt so our kids can pay 
more in taxes in order to pay off that debt.

This is a transfer of wealth. It is Robin Hood in reverse. We are 
taking from the middle class and working families and we are giving it 
to the wealthiest people in this country. I believe the agreement 
struck between the President and the Republican leadership is a bad 
deal. There may be some


good parts to it, but, by and large, it is not a good deal. We can do 
better, and the American people must stand up and work with us. They 
must get on their phones and call their Senators and call their 
Congress men and women. They must make their voices heard and say: 
Enough is enough. The rich have it all right now--the top 1 percent 
earns 23/1/2/ percent of all income, more than the bottom 50 percent--
and it is absurd that we continue to bail out people who do not need 
any help and who are doing just fine.

I am here to take a stand against this bill, and I am going to do 
everything I can to defeat this bill. I am going to tell my colleagues 
and the American people exactly why, in my view, this is not good 
legislation. Let me just tick off some of the reasons I think this bill 
does not serve the best interests of the disappearing middle class of 
this country.

I don't know what kind of telephone calls the Presiding Officer is 
receiving from Colorado, but I can tell you that in the last 3 days 
alone, according to my front desk staff both here in Washington and in 
Vermont, we are over 5,000 telephone calls and e-mails, and I believe 
well over 98 percent of those messages are against this agreement. I 
don't know to what degree that is indicative of what is going on all 
over this country, but I suspect it is not radically different in other 
States. I think the American people are saying, with a $13.8 trillion 
national debt, let's not give tax breaks to billionaires and drive up 
that national debt, forcing our kids to pay more in taxes, and at the 
same time have Republicans coming forward to start slashing Medicare 
and Medicaid and Social Security because of this large debt that we are 
making larger.

I appeal to my conservative friends. I am not a conservative, but 
many conservatives have spent their entire political careers saying we 
cannot afford to drive up the national debt, that it is unsustainable. 
I agree with that. So vote against this agreement because it is driving 
up the national debt. In a significant way it is doing that by giving 
tax breaks to people who absolutely don't need it.

Once again, for those people who are earning $1 million a year or 
more, on average--on average--they will be getting a $100,000-a-year 
tax break, and for people earning $100 million a year, that number will 
be a lot higher. Who believes that makes any sense at all?

Let me give some other reasons I think this agreement is a bad 
agreement. The President says: Well, yes, we are going to extend tax 
breaks for all, including the top 2 percent. But don't worry, it is 
only going to be for 2 years--not to worry, it is only going to be for 
2 years.

Well, maybe that will be the case. But you know what. I doubt that 
very much. I have been in Congress long enough to know if you extend a 
tax break, it is very hard to undo that extension because if we can't 
tell our Republican colleagues that it is absurd to continue giving tax 
breaks to millionaires and billionaires--if we can't do it now--what 
makes you think we will do it in the midst of a Presidential election?

I say that as somebody who admires and likes the President. The 
President is a friend of mine. But his credibility has been severely 
damaged. If he is going to go forward, and if he is the Democratic 
nominee, I suspect he will say: Yes, I extended it for 2 years against 
my will; but, don't worry, I am going to repeal them after 2 years. 
Tell me, who will believe him? His credibility has been severely 
damaged. We are caving in on this issue and we should not be.

The polls show us the American people do not believe millionaires and 
billionaires need more tax breaks. If the calls to my office are 
indicative of what is going on in this country, there is overwhelming 
opposition to that agreement.

So I am saying that while the President says don't worry, that this 
is only temporary, I don't like it. But it is only 2 years. I have my 
doubts. I expect in 2 years, if this agreement goes forward, it will be 
extended again. As you know, Mr. President, they wanted 10 years on 
this extension of tax breaks for the rich. I have my strong suspicion 
that is exactly what will happen, if not made permanent. This country 
cannot afford to give tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires and 
have the middle class pay higher taxes to pay them off.

I want to say also that while a lot of attention has been focused on 
the personal income tax issue, that is not the only unfair tax proposal 
in this agreement. This agreement continues the Bush era 15 percent tax 
rate on capital gains and dividends.

Let me be clear about what that means. It means those people who make 
their living off of their investments--if you invest, if you earn 
dividends--will continue to pay a substantially lower tax rate than the 
average American person in the working class, middle class--our 
firemen, our teachers, our nurses. Those people are not going to pay 15 
percent. They pay a higher rate than folks who have capital gains and 
dividends. I think that is wrong. This agreement extends those 
provisions.

Furthermore--and this is a point that has to be made over and over--
this agreement between the President and the Republicans lowers the 
estate tax rate to 35 percent. Under this agreement, the estate tax 
will decline to 35 percent. Under President Clinton, when the economy 
was much stronger, the estate tax was 55 percent.

Now, I know the Republicans have done a very good job in trying to 
convince the American people this is a so-called death tax; that in 
every family in America, when a loved one dies, the family is going to 
have to pay 35 percent, 45 percent, or 55 percent. I have had people in 
Burlington, VT, come up to me and say: What are you doing? I have 
$30,000 in the bank that I want to leave to my kids. Why are you 
forcing my kids to pay such a large tax?

So let me be very clear. The Republicans have done a very good job in 
totally distorting this issue. The estate tax is paid only by the top 
three-tenths of 1 percent of families in America. If you are in the 
middle class, even if you are modestly wealthy, even if you are 
wealthy, or if you are poor, if you are lower middle class, you don't 
pay a nickel in estate tax if somebody in your family were to die and 
leave you wealth--not a nickel. This applies not just to the rich but 
to the very, very rich.


What the Republicans have been arguing for several years now is they 
want to repeal the estate tax entirely. If they were successful in 
doing that, that would mean increasing the national debt by $1 trillion 
over a 10-year period and all of the benefits--not some, all of the 
benefits--go to the top three-tenths of 1 percent; 99.7 percent of the 
people do not gain one nickel.

What is in this agreement is not what the Republicans ideally want, 
which is a repeal of the tax entirely, but what they do get is a 
reduction to 35 percent with an exemption on the first $5 million of an 
individual's estate.

Here is a chart which indicates just what I said a moment ago. 
''Repealing the estate tax would add more than $1 trillion to the 
deficit over 10 years.'' It is over $1 trillion, and the beneficiaries 
of it are just the very wealthy.

Let me give an example of what the repeal of the estate tax would 
mean. I will read it right off this chart.




 Sam Walton's family, the heirs to the Wal-Mart fortune, are 


 worth an estimated $86.8 billion. The Walton family would 


 receive an estimated $32.7 billion tax break if the estate 


 tax was completely repealed.


This is what our Republican friends want.

This agreement between the President and the Republicans certainly 
does not repeal the estate tax, but it does significantly lower the 
rates that the richest people, the very richest people in this country, 
would have to pay.

(Mr. UDALL of Colorado assumed the chair.)

Two days ago, I brought to the floor of the Senate a very simple 
piece of legislation. I think how that legislation was treated speaks 
volumes about the debate we are having now. This legislation said that 
with over 50 million senior citizens on Social Security and disabled 
vets for the second year in a row not getting a cost-of-living 
adjustment, a COLA--over 50 million seniors on Social Security and 
disabled vets not getting any COLA at all--despite the fact their 
prescription drug costs are going up and their health care costs are 
going up, they got no COLA. I said I think that in these tough


times, it is appropriate that we provide those folks--if we cannot get 
them a COLA, let's get them the equivalent of a measly 2 percent COLA, 
a $250 check to all of our seniors and disabled vets. That is what we 
did, by the way, in the stimulus package. That is all. For over 50 
million people, a $250 check costs our government about $14 billion. 
Yet I could not get one Republican vote in support of that. Republicans 
say: My goodness, imagine a senior or disabled vet living on $15,000 or 
$20,000 a year getting a $250 check. What an outrage. We have different 
priorities, they say. We want to give a $1 million tax break to 
somebody who earns $50 million a year. That about says it all. If you 
are very, very rich, the good news is you are going to get more tax 
breaks. But if you are a senior or disabled vet, we can't get you a 
$250 check.

I will say that the vote on the floor of the Senate was 53 people in 
favor of providing that one-time check, 45 against--53 to 45: We won. 
But here in the Senate, majority does not rule. Republicans filibuster 
almost everything, and it requires 60 votes. We did not get the 60 
votes, and seniors did not get that check. I am going to do my best to 
see that they do get it. We are going to bring that issue back and back 
again.

I raise that issue to tell you that one of the very weakest proposals 
in this agreement, totally outrageous, is the decrease in taxes for the 
estate tax.

There is another issue I want to touch on. I am going to spend a lot 
of time on this issue because it has not gotten the coverage and the 
attention I think it deserves.

This agreement deals with the so-called payroll tax holiday. I know 
the Vice President and the President and others have been touting this. 
They say this is really a good thing because it will put more money 
into the pockets of the working people. What will happen--right now, if 
you are a worker, you put 6.2 percent into Social Security. It is going 
to be reduced for 1 year to 4.2 percent. You get the difference, and 
this is really a good thing. All of us want to see working people have 
more money in their pockets. That is what we do. That is what we are 
fighting for.

But let me be clear that while on the surface this so-called payroll 
tax holiday sounds like a good idea for working people, it is actually 
a very bad idea. What the American people should understand is that 
this payroll tax holiday originated from rightwing Republicans whose 
ultimate goal, trust me, is not to put more money into the pockets of 
working families; it is the ultimate destruction of Social Security. 
What they understand is that if we divert funding that is supposed to 
go into the Social Security trust fund, this will ultimately weaken the 
long-term financial viability of Social Security. In other words, what 
we are doing is, for the very first time, diverting money which is 
supposed to go into the Social Security trust fund and we are giving it 
to workers today. It is like eating our seed.

Rather than going into Social Security, the President says: Don't 
worry, this is going to be covered this year by the Federal Government. 
We have never seen that before. I don't want Social Security to be 
dependent on the Federal Government because the Federal Government has 
a $13.7 trillion national debt. And what I worry about is this is not 
just a 1-year provision; this also could be extended.

Let me quote Barbara Kennelly.

I am glad to see I am joined here on the floor by one of the 
strongest fighters for working families in the Senate, Senator Sherrod 
Brown of Ohio. I just want to say this before I ask him a question or 
before he asks me a question or whatever the protocol is.

I want to quote what Barbara Kennelly, the president and CEO of the 
National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, said. This 
is one of the largest senior citizens groups in America.




 Even though Social Security contributed nothing to the 


 current economic crisis, it has been bartered in a deal that 


 provides deficit-busting tax cuts for the wealthy.


Here is the key point:




 Diverting $120 billion in Social Security contributions for 


 a so-called ''tax holiday'' may sound like a good deal for 


 workers now, but it's bad business for a program that a 


 majority of middle-class seniors will rely upon in the 


 future.


Barbara Kennelly, president and CEO of the National Committee to 
Preserve Social Security and Medicare.

I am joined by my very good friend from Ohio, and I want to ask him 
his sense of this overall agreement.