---
---

# H1N1 INFLUENZA
## `f0181a3e68e719b51ac2e47450d56433`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia — 5 May 2009`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Reclaiming my time, because that is a great 
segue for me; because, Madam Speaker, I represent a district, Marietta, 
Georgia, is part of it, Cobb County. Lockheed Martin has a plant there 
where we employ almost 8,000 great Georgians, probably a few folks from 
Alabama and surrounding States that work on those flight lines for the 
C-130 and also, more specifically, the F-22 Raptor.

The Department of Defense has made the decision to cancel that 
program at 187 F-22s, when originally we thought we needed 700, the 
military. The Air Force in particular has said, Madam Speaker, 
repeatedly that even 240 planes would put us in a moderate-risk 
situation, and all of a sudden this administration has made the 
decision to cancel that flight line and I think put us at a high-risk 
situation.

I feel very strongly that in this emergency supplemental there are 
four, and that is it, four of these F-22 Raptors that give us that 
fifth generation of air superiority, best in the world, and we are 
going to appropriate as a part of an emergency supplemental mainly for 
continuing to fight and win in Iraq and Afghanistan, particularly 
Afghanistan now; yet, we are going to spend $2 billion possibly 
preparing a vaccine that will never be used?

Let me tell you what happens, Madam Speaker, with that vaccine if we 
produce it at 50 million or however many doses like they did back in 
1976 when it only cost $135 million. We might be spending $2 billion on 
a vaccine that gets poured down the drain and is never used, and we 
could have purchased 15 or 20 F-22 Raptors.

Again, that is getting off on a tangent a little bit, but I feel like 
I really need to mention that because we have to prioritize our 
spending. We have to do these things in an appropriate manner. We can't 
let all of our spending and our reaction be media driven in responding 
to a panic so that we don't get Katrina'd. And I would yield back to my 
colleague.