---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `f019304fca174af5656a2f768b6db357`
`Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I stand in strong support 
of this legislation, H.R. 2956.

I have to remind my colleagues that I am from Florida and it does 
matter who is the President, and we should never forget the 2000 
election because it matters who is the President of the United States.

President Bush intentionally misled the American people by supplying 
false grounds for going to war, and I personally never supported the 
war in Iraq.

This war has cost over a half trillion dollars. This war is now 
costing over $12 billion per month.

I stand with the American people and I wholeheartedly support our 
troops; yet I cannot support a truly senseless war that has killed 
3,600 Americans and left over 26,000 severely wounded.

The soldiers did not vote for this war, but when given a mission, 
they do the best they can to complete it. The military is doing the job 
they were sent to do. There was a flaw in the mission from the 
beginning, and the flaw lies with us.

I want to be clear. The President's checking account has been 
overdrawn. The Bush administration's manipulation of taxpayer dollars 
to fund this war is over, and 70 percent of the American people oppose 
this war. This war needs to come to an immediate end.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''yes'' on the bill. Let's redeploy our 
men and women.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
