---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `f01d55793c1e83858412512aaeeceb05`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 15 October 2007`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, it is with great sadness that I must 
inform the Senate of the death of Sergeant Joseph B. Milledge a 
Glenwood, IA, native who was killed in Iraq on October 5, 2007, during 
combat patrol in Baghdad. Sergeant Milledge was part of the 3rd 
Squadron, 2nd Stryker Cavalry Regiment, 1st Armored Division stationed 
in Vilseck, Germany. My thoughts and prayers go out to his family and 
friends, especially his wife Amanda and their 1-year-old son Joseph, 
Jr., as well as his parents, Carla and Jack.

Joseph Milledge was born in Council Bluffs, IA, and later moved to 
Glenwood with his family where he attended high school. He enlisted in 
the U.S. Army in August 2003, a year after he graduated. By all 
accounts, Joseph was a highly literate man who enjoyed reading books on 
religion and philosophy and writing poetry. In fact, I understand he 
gave his wife a book of his unpublished poetry this summer. Joseph 
loved his family unconditionally and cherished spending time with his 
son, nieces, and nephews.

Sergeant Milledge was very dedicated to his country and the cause for 
which he was fighting. His mother explained that he didn't want to go 
back for a second tour because of his family but did so because he knew 
it was his duty to his country. Carla Milledge said, ''You couldn't 
have asked for a better father or husband. He loved his wife and son. 
He loved them with his whole being.''

I know his loss will be felt very strongly, not least by his infant 
son. But, as his wife Carla said, ''He'll know his daddy was a hero and 
died for what he believed in.'' Sergeant Joseph B. Milledge is indeed a 
great American hero who will be remembered for his courage, his 
strength, and his love. He gave the ultimate sacrifice for his family, 
friends, and country, and we are forever grateful.
