---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `f0223840b17bc9dd3083bfa83e960cdf`
`Mr. REED — 30 July 2009`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I introduce the Zero Tolerance for 
Veteran Homelessness Act. This comprehensive bill enhances and expands 
the assistance provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs and the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development to homeless veterans and 
veterans at risk of becoming homeless.

It is one of our Nation's great tragedies that on any given night, 
131,000 veterans are homeless. The Department of Veterans Affairs 
estimates that more than 200,000 veterans experience homelessness each 
year and that nearly 1/5 of all homeless people in the United States 
are veterans. These numbers are expected to climb as our servicemembers 
fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan return home to face tough economic 
conditions.

We know that veterans are often at greater risk of becoming homeless. 
Some return from deployments to discover that the skills they have 
honed in their military service can be difficult to transfer to jobs in 
the private sector. Others struggle with physical or mental wounds of 
war. Still others return to communities that lack safe, affordable 
housing.

Our veterans have made great sacrifices to serve our country, and it 
is especially important to honor our commitment to them. The Department 
of Veterans Affairs is certainly a part of that commitment, providing 
benefits, medical care, support, and a sense of community to homeless 
veterans. However, a number of other federal agencies provide service 
to veterans, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development, 
and this legislation builds on that existing infrastructure.

Many programs through HUD and the VA are already helping homeless 
veterans with transitional housing, health care and rehabilitation 
services, and employment assistance. However, a more comprehensive and 
coordinated approach would strengthen these programs and prevent more 
at-risk veterans from becoming homeless.

That is why I have joined with my colleagues Senators Bond, Murray, 
and Johnson to introduce this much-needed legislation. The Zero 
Tolerance for Veterans Homelessness Act seeks to merge housing programs 
and support services for veterans from the start so that there is an 
integrated approach to address their risk of homelessness.

First, this bill would create a new Homelessness Prevention program 
that would enable the VA to keep at-risk veterans in stable housing and 
offer increased assistance to veterans who have fallen into 
homelessness. Specifically, the VA could provide short-term rental 
assistance, housing relocation and stabilization services, services to 
resolve personal credit issues, payments for security deposits or 
utility costs, and assistance for moving costs. These up-front expenses 
can be the major obstacle that puts low-income or unemployed veterans 
at risk of becoming homeless. These homelessness prevention and rapid 
re-housing techniques have been successfully used in numerous 
communities to significantly reduce family homelessness, and this bill 
would give the VA resources to put these strategies into practice.

Second, this bill would authorize additional housing vouchers through 
the HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing, VASH, program. This 
collaborative program provides homeless veterans with vouchers to rent 
apartments in the private rental market, as well as case management and 
clinical services at local VA medical centers. In this way, veterans 
receive the supportive housing they need to recover and thrive.

The HUD-VASH program has grown in recent years. Twenty thousand 
vouchers were funded in the last two appropriations cycles, and 10,000 
more will likely be funded-in Fiscal Year 2010. However, more homeless 
veterans could benefit from this important resource. As such, the Zero 
Tolerance for Veterans Homelessness bill authorizes up to 10,000 
additional vouchers each year to reach a maximum of 60,000 vouchers by 
2013.

Third, this legislation would make it easier for non-profits to apply 
for capital grants through the VA's grants and per diem program to 
build transitional housing and other facilities for veterans. This 
would streamline the process for non-profit organizations to be able to 
use financing from other sources to break ground on new housing 
construction. This is particularly important in the current economy, 
when non-profits are stretched and have to be more creative than ever 
to fund new capital projects.

The Zero Tolerance for Veterans Homelessness Act would also create a 
Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within HUD. The Special 
Assistant would ensure that veterans have access to HUD's existing 
programs and work to remove any barriers. The Special Assistant would 
also serve as a liaison between HUD and the VA, helping to connect and 
coordinate the services the two departments provide.

Additionally, this legislation recognizes the need to measure 
progress of efforts to combat homelessness. It establishes a new 
Homeless Veterans Management Information System, to be developed by the 
VA, in consultation with HUD and the United States Interagency Council 
on Homelessness. This data collection system will be used to provide 
annual reports to Congress on the number of homeless veterans and they 
types of assistance they receive. This information will help illustrate 
how programs are performing and inform future policy.

Finally, the bill would require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in 
consultation with other agencies, to analyze existing programs and 
develop a comprehensive plan with recommendations on how to end 
homelessness among veterans. Establishing a plan with appropriate 
benchmarks will enable the VA to more easily track progress towards 
this important goal.

This bipartisan bill also complements a bill that I am cosponsoring 
with Senator Murray to enable programs at the VA and the Department of 
Labor to better serve homeless women veterans and homeless veterans 
with children.

Only by working together, across the federal government and in 
partnership with non-profits and local housing authorities, will we be 
able to comprehensively help homeless veterans and reach those in 
danger of becoming homeless. We owe it to our veterans to ensure that 
they and their families have safe, affordable places to live and to 
provide the services and benefits they have earned. The nation's brave 
veterans deserve nothing less.

I hope my colleagues will join in supporting this important, 
bipartisan legislation.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.