# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f0255733aea71fa70b4d60388a2db24a`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 21 September 2007`

---

 Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I support passage of the Levin-Reed 
amendment and a new course of action in Iraq.

This amendment makes three significant and important changes in our 
involvement in Iraq that to this point the administration has been 
unwilling to make, even though the American people have been demanding 
change for over a year.

First, it removes our troops from the civil war they are now policing 
and gives them three achievable missions:


to conduct targeted counterterrorism operations against al-Qaida and 
affiliated terrorist organizations; to train and equip Iraqi Security 
Forces; and, to provide security for U.S. personnel and infrastructure.

Second, the amendment calls for the safe redeployment of those troops 
not required for these three missions beginning in 3 months and to be 
completed within 9 months of this bill's passage.

And finally this amendment acknowledges what we have known all along 
that there is no military solution to this conflict. It calls for the 
implementation of a comprehensive diplomatic, political, and economic 
strategy to jump start the process of reconciliation and stability. 
This strategy would include sustained engagement with Iraq's neighbors 
and the international community and the appointment of an international 
mediator in Iraq under the United Nations Security Council. The 
mediator would have the authority to engage the political, religious, 
ethnic, and tribal leaders in a political process that aims to avoid no 
one wants--regional civil war.

For nearly 5 years, our troops have done everything asked of them. It 
is time for Iraqis to provide the security for their own country. I 
urge adoption of the Levin-Reed amendment.