# None
## `f02effa141be289c806bc19f406d5d03`
`Ms. PINGREE of Maine — 29 October 2009`

---


Ms. PINGREE of Maine. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, H. Res. 875 provides for consideration of H.R. 3854, 
the Small Business Financing and Investment Act of 2009, under a 
structured rule. The rule self-executes an amendment that removes 
direct spending from the bill, thereby making the underlying bill PAYGO 
compliant. The bill makes in order 16 amendments printed in the Rules 
Committee report. The amendments are debatable for 10 minutes each, 
except for the manager's amendment which is debatable for 20 minutes.

Additionally, the rule provides authority for the Speaker to 
entertain motions to suspend the rules through Friday of this week for 
a measure addressing unemployment compensation.

Madam Speaker, today we will pass a very important piece of 
legislation that will directly help small businesses from around our 
country. H.R. 3854, the Small Business Financing and Investment Act of 
2009, increases the loan limits available for small businesses through 
the SBA; it promotes increased private investment in small businesses; 
it provides increased resources for businesses working in the field of 
renewable energy; and it supports our veterans returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan seeking the capital they need to start or to grow their 
businesses.

What this bill does beyond anything else is provide much-needed 
support for Main Street to help small entrepreneurs grow, save, and 
create jobs. As President Obama said last week, supporting small 
businesses needs to be our highest priority because when small 
businesses are succeeding, America succeeds.

When I return to my home State of Maine, I hear from small businesses 
week after week that access to capital is one of the most difficult 
challenges that they face. The credit market has been drying up, and 
small businesses have been hit hard.

Earlier this year, my office hosted an event focused specifically on 
connecting small businesses with capital, including SBA programs. The 
response was overwhelming. We had hundreds of small businesses RSVP to 
attend, so many that we needed to reserve an overflow room to 
accommodate the demand. These were businesses of all types and sizes, 
and many of them had driven hours to come to the workshop. They came to 
this meeting because they felt they had nowhere else to turn.

SBA programs have been an important resource for businesses during 
this economic downturn, and this bill will take important steps to 
increase access to and the success of these programs. I want to take a 
minute to give you a couple of examples from my State of how SBA loans 
are working to support small businesses.

A company named ALCOM was established by Tom Sturtevant and his 
stepson, Trapper Clark, in 2006 and is one of the largest manufacturers 
of aluminum trailers in the northeast. With an SBA loan under the 504 
program, this business was able to construct a new, 70,000-square foot 
manufacturing facility with much-needed space for expansion while 
enhancing the flow of inventory, and they were able to hire 15 new 
workers. This is a family-owned business with good-paying manufacturing 
jobs that has been able not only to survive in the current economic 
climate, but grow thanks to an SBA loan.

Julia McClure opened Sweets & Meats, a market in Rockland, Maine, 
earlier this year, thanks to financing she received through the SBA's 
7(a) program. Women-owned enterprises is the fastest growing business 
group, and this grocery store, specializing in local meats and produce, 
is a great example of how the SBA has worked to support these 
entrepreneurs.

Casco Bay Molding in Sanford, Maine, is an injection molding company 
founded by Andy Powell. After working to develop a customer 
relationship with Flotation Technologies, another Maine-based company 
and a world leader in buoyance systems, these two companies worked to 
design and implement a new line of proprietary, deepwater oil and gas 
exploration and harvesting equipment.

This new demand meant that Casco Bay Molding needed to upgrade to 
compete with much larger molding shops in the region. With a loan under 
the SBA 504 program, this small business was able to upgrade their 
equipment, meet the demand, and employ five additional people in their 
community in good-paying manufacturing jobs. Furthermore, by helping 
Casco Bay Molding to succeed and grow, this loan supported other local 
businesses, like Fiber Materials, providing them the benefits of an 
expert injection molding operation within close proximity to their 
manufacturing facility.



This is a great example of the exponential impact that investment in 
small businesses has in all of our communities, one that expands small 
businesses, creates new, good-paying jobs, rewards ingenuity, and 
supports Main Street through this economic downturn.

The problem is there are not enough of these success stories. Small 
businesses are desperate for credit to expand and grow, and SBA 
programs, as they currently stand, simply cannot meet this demand. That 
is why this bill is so important. It will expand and develop these 
vital programs, including the 7(a) and 504 programs, to better meet the 
needs of all small businesses.

Mr. Speaker, all across this country, small businesses have struggled 
during these difficult times through no fault of their own. They didn't 
cause this economic crisis, but they can help to lead us out of it, and 
we have to help them access the funding they need to survive, grow and 
to expand their businesses. The jobs they create today will bring 
economic growth and prosperity to our communities tomorrow if we just 
give them the chance.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill today and the underlying 
bill. As Rumery's Boatyard, another SBA loan recipient from Maine told 
me, it is imperative that we support our small businesses and ensure 
that they are ready to go once the economy fully recovers.

I reserve the balance of my time.