# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `f03b309059d69736b43ca988333cda15`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. I thank the gentleman.

Let me focus on just one very specific bipartisan solution that the 
Center Aisle Caucus has proposed. The gentleman from Pennsylvania 
alluded to it. It's a status of forces agreement.

At the end of the cold war, the United States had permanent status of 
forces agreements with about 40 countries. Today the number has grown 
to more than 90, which means that the United States Government has 
status of forces agreements with nearly half of the countries 
comprising the world community. Now, what is a status of forces 
agreement?

A status of forces agreement is essentially a negotiated document 
between the United States Government and a host government where we 
have a military presence that governs the relationship between the 
military and that government. It governs our criminal justice issues. 
It governs a variety of diplomatic and protocol issues.

Now, I have been told on my visits to Iraq and in my conversations 
with Iraqi officials here at home and with American officials that one 
of the concerns that the population of Iraq has is that we are going to 
be there forever, that we want to occupy Iraq forever.

We don't want to occupy Iraq forever. We don't want to be there one 
day longer than we need to be. If I had my way, we would be out 
tomorrow. The fact of the matter is that if the Iraqi people believe 
that we are there running the place and that they are not a sovereign 
government, they will never have the capability to stand up their own 
ministries, to take care of their own security.

I have proposed on a bipartisan basis a resolution that asks the 
President to begin negotiating a status of forces agreement with the 
sovereign Iraqi Government. You can't expect a government to have a 
capability if we can't even negotiate an agreement between that 
government and our government with respect to the presence of military 
forces.


Iraq is a sovereign entity. One of the very important signals that we 
can send to the Iraqi people and to our population at home is the 
negotiation of the status of forces agreement.

Now, one of the great levels of frustration that I have is that 
whenever I raise this issue, I am told that we are pushing up against 
an open door. I am told that mostly everybody agrees that we should 
have a status of forces agreement in Iraq.

In fact, the Jones Commission, which was constituted as a group of 
highly expert military people assessing the condition of Iraqi 
security, when they made their recommendations, the number two 
recommendation in the Jones Commission report was, in fact, the 
submission of, and I will read directly from the report: ''The second 
recommendation the Commission wishes to offer is that consideration be 
given to pursuing an agreement akin to a status of forces agreement 
with the Government of Iraq. Appropriately drawn, it would have the 
effect of codifying our relationship with the host nation, reinforcing 
its sovereignty and independence, and would be consistent with other 
such agreements we enjoy with many nations where we have a military 
presence.''

So here you have yet another bipartisan commission recommending yet 
another idea that everybody can agree on, the Iraqis can agree to it, 
we can agree to it, Republicans and Democrats can agree to it, except 
that nobody is making it happen.

So I have proposed, as I said before, a resolution, a bipartisan 
resolution, that simply tells the President to submit a status of 
forces agreement to negotiation with the Iraqi Government. It begins 
this process. It signals the Iraqi people that we have no intention of 
owning Iraq. We are guests there, and they are the host government.

This is just one simple move in the right direction, a bipartisan 
move in the right direction; and I am hoping that the administration 
will listen to it and vigorously negotiate a status of forces agreement 
with Iraq.

I want to thank my friend from Pennsylvania, who has been active with 
me on that resolution, for his assistance, and would yield to him if he 
wants to comment further on it.