---
---

# IRAQ
## `f03f36d8d9dca47b33af4be654736920`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, we all know and understand that 
Americans are deeply concerned about the war in Iraq. We all represent 
the finest and bravest men and women across this great country who put 
themselves in harm's way to protect our very way of life. We all want 
our brave men and women who are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan to come 
home as soon as possible.

Members of Georgia's military community have given mightily to our 
efforts in the Middle East. In fact, members of the 3rd Infantry 
Division, headquartered at Fort Stewart, GA, are heading to Iraq for 
the third time as we speak, and I wish to underscore how much we 
appreciate them and their families. These resolutions which the 
Democrats continue to put forth undermine these men and women. Any 
attempt to set a timeline for withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq, as 
the latest resolution does, will embolden the enemy and tell them 
exactly how long they need to wait until they are free to take over and 
wreak havoc in Iraq.

I understand the desire to have the Iraqis take responsibility for 
their own country and step up to the plate in terms of taking the 
political, economic, and military actions necessary to secure Iraq, and 
I strongly support that goal. However, this resolution is the wrong way 
to accomplish it.

These resolutions--and I believe there have been about 17 put forth 
over the course of the last couple of months--simply send the wrong 
message to our troops, and they send the wrong message to the enemy.

Winston Churchill once said:




 Nothing is more dangerous in wartime than to live in the 


 temperamental atmosphere of a Gallup poll, always feeling 


 one's pulse and taking one's temperature.


I think that sums up what is going on here today.

These resolutions only serve to micromanage the war by a political 
body which simply is unable to do it effectively. We have a Commander 
in Chief who is entrusted with managing and leading our military during 
wartime, and the Commander in Chief's new plan for Iraq deserves a 
chance to succeed. These resolutions are designed to ensure that the 
President's plan fails, not that it succeeds.

Also, these resolutions are completely contradictory to the Senate's 
support for GEN David Petraeus, our new commander of the multinational 
forces in Iraq. No Senator opposed General Petraeus's nomination. I 
have not heard anyone criticize him, and rightly so. We need to give 
General Petraeus and his counterinsurgency campaign in Iraq a chance to 
succeed. The people of Georgia, myself included, want General Petraeus 
to succeed. We understand the consequences of failure, and there is no 
question the latest resolution we are considering in this body will not 
help him succeed.

This resolution advocates transitioning U.S. forces in Iraq to 
protecting U.S. coalition personnel, training and equipping Iraqi 
forces, and conducting counterterrorism operations, and calls for a 
diplomatic, political, and economic strategy to stabilize Iraq. Many 
people say the situation in Iraq requires a political and not a 
military solution. I strongly agree with that position; however, it is 
not possible to have a political solution or to make political progress 
if citizens live in an unstable and unsafe society. Some level of order 
and stability must be in place before a political solution can take 
hold.

In America, we take order and stability for granted because we live 
in a country that is extremely safe, secure, and stable. However, Iraq 
is not the United States. Iraqis do not live in a secure and stable 
society, and order and stability must be in place before there can be 
any hope for a long-term political solution. The additional troops we 
are sending are meant to create that order and stability, particularly 
in Baghdad. We need to give this effort a chance to succeed, and we 
need to create stability and order before we can be hopeful about a 
long-term political solution.

The Reid resolution opposes the President's plan without offering any 
concrete alternative. It opposes the mission which the Senate has 
unanimously confirmed General Petraeus to carry out, and it will not 
serve to help our troops and our commander in Iraq succeed in the 
mission we have sent them on to accomplish. For these reasons, I urge 
my colleagues to oppose the resolution.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.