---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f04196098b5941185ce52b2e57c41ef7`
`Mr. KNOLLENBERG — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. KNOLLENBERG. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I want to make a statement that mistakes have been made 
in Iraq. The status quo is not acceptable. We need to chart a new 
course. But we also need to acknowledge that some positive things have 
happened in Iraq, thanks to the courage and dedication of our troops. 
These accomplishments often get just lost in all the politics that 
surround this debate.

Toppling one of the most brutal dictators in history was a good 
thing. Saddam Hussein's regime was responsible for the senseless murder 
of thousands of innocent Iraqi citizens. Under his rule, most Iraqis 
lived in fear of the day Hussein or one of his cronies would come for 
their mother, their father, their sister or brother.

Hussein was also a direct threat to our friend and ally, Israel. He 
was a menace, and it is good that he is gone. Furthermore, turning 
Iraq's sovereignty over to the Iraqis and providing assistance as they 
forged a democratically elected government is a big deal. Fostering 
democracy in the


heart of the Middle East was important and was also a very historic 
moment.

As we debate the current strategy in Iraq, let us not forget that our 
soldiers have provided a tremendous opportunity to the Iraqi people. 
They have provided an opportunity for them to grab the benefits of 
freedom. Now it is up to the Iraqis to seize it.

Before us today, we have a nonbinding resolution that doesn't even 
mention the accomplishments I just spoke of. We can all agree that the 
war has taken a wrong turn, but instead of debating nonbinding 
resolutions that have no bearing on whether additional troops go to 
Iraq, we should work together to find a solution that results in our 
soldiers coming home in victory, not defeat.

Mr. Speaker, I have offered my conditional support for the 
President's plan for additional troops in Iraq. My support is 
conditional, not carte blanche. I want to see the benchmarks met and 
progress made within the next 90 to 120 days. It is time for the Iraqis 
to step up to the plate and assume responsibility for the security of 
their nation.

If the Iraqis do not step up to this challenge in the coming months, 
then it will be time to reevaluate. The resolution before us doesn't 
even speak to these issues. It does nothing in the way of bringing out 
or bringing our troops home quickly and in victory. It is just pure 
politics.

I encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to work together 
with the President to ensure a quick return of our troops. We all know 
that Congress is not going to cut funding for President Bush's new Iraq 
plan. If we know this to be true, why are we wasting our time on 
nonbinding resolutions that lead us nowhere?

Let's put our troops first. Let's end the political gamesmanship, and 
let's work together to find a solution in Iraq. That is what the 
American people want, and that is what our soldiers and their families 
deserve.