---
---

# ENERGY
## `f048204e4f8feaedff89dced57d16840`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's a pleasure to be here. I'm 
going to be joined by a number of the members of the freshmen class, 
and I appreciate the Speaker being one of our Members from Ohio. We 
have a great group of Members from all over the United States who were 
elected a year ago on certainly a campaign of change and bringing some 
new ideas, new energy. And energy is going to be the subject tonight 
because a lot of us have a lot of it.

I know Americans are looking for some new ideas on how to solve our 
problems with energy and how to move our country forward. And the 
reason it's important, particularly important today is because today 
this House Chamber took a bold, new step, and we passed the Renewable 
Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2008. And as I said, many 
freshmen, and many Members, Democrat and Republican, ran on a platform 
of change and new ideas. Energy is that idea. It's that platform.

And if you're old enough, you'll remember the Manhattan Project. I 
know I'm speaking to people who are listening in this Chamber tonight 
that are familiar with that Manhattan Project. It was that great 
ingenuity that Americans came together and knew what they had to do in 
order to win World War II. It was done in secret, but it produced the 
results that were necessary to save lives at the end of the day.

More recently, again a number of years but more recently, we had 
something called the Sputnik that Russia sent up, a little tin can that 
went up into space. And for those people who were alive at that time, 
they were frightened, rightfully so, that the Russians had gotten ahead 
of us and had put something in space that could potentially give the 
Russians the control, the Soviet Union control, of the space above our 
heads and maybe they would rain down on us weapons and have other kinds 
of threats against the United States.

And President John F. Kennedy, at that moment in time when Americans 
looked up and saw that can, that little flash in the sky, and realized 
that it wasn't the United States that put that up there but a country 
that at that time was viewed as in competition and the Cold War was 
just developing, what happened at that moment was John F. Kennedy said 
we are going to take this moment, capitalize on the concern, and 
channel that into a new program, a space program that was going to put 
a man on the moon by the end of the decade. And, boy, that was 
something that was incredible. It was unheard of. Could we do it? I 
mean, the Moon is up there, and it would take a great amount of 
technology and science, and maybe it was a dream that our philosophers 
and other scientists years ago had, but to actually accomplish that in 
10 years?

And lo and behold, in 1969, in July, I remember the moment. I was in 
a camp at that time, and I remember watching with my friends. In July 
of 1969, Americans put a man on the Moon and landed a man on the Moon. 
What an incredible accomplishment. And today we are still receiving the 
dividends from a space program that has just had so much impact not 
only on American ingenuity in terms of the space program and all the 
great things that have come out of that, but in consumer products, 
microwave ovens and a whole lot of other things that we take for 
granted today that came out of the science, and the math and the 
science and all the great things that went on in our schools to create 
the future leaders and the science program and the space program that 
has continued through today.

This is that moment. This is that time when Americans need to seize 
this crisis that has been developing for quite some time, and we need 
to do something about it. And there are three groups of people in the 
United States that are all coming together behind renewable energy and 
making sure that America becomes energy self-sufficient over the next 
number of years.

We have had many people in this country from the environmental 
community that for years have said that the pollution caused by various 
types of fossil fuels have clouded our air and damaged and polluted our 
waters, and it's not only in the United States but throughout the 
world. The environmental community has been very concerned about this 
and has tried to build bridges and coalitions, and they've really 
worked hard on that. And they are now joined by two other groups.

All Americans join in the notion that as a matter of national 
security, and I certainly believe this and I know the Speaker does too, 
and many of the men and women in this room and most Americans 
understand this, that for too long we in America have made foreign 
policy decisions based on where the next drop of oil is coming from. 
And what a mistake. What a mistake. We've done it over and over and 
over again, whether it's dealing with Iran in our past history, dealing 
with Iraq presently, dealing with Venezuela, or any number of other 
countries in the Middle East, some of whom at best, at best, may not be 
our friends and, at worst, are our enemies. And yet every time you go 
to the pump, you're putting money not necessarily in an American 
company, but you are putting money that is eventually getting into the 
pockets of some of the owners of these oil wells in these countries 
that are damaging our interests and in many cases are funneling to the 
terrorists and the people around the world that are really putting our 
men and women at risk, whether it's in Iraq or anywhere around the 
world. This is a very dangerous prospect and it's unacceptable.

The third group, of course, and I think this is one of the most 
exciting things, is the new economy that is developing out of this 
energy discussion. The job opportunities, the great innovators, the 
scientists, the American men and women at our universities, our 
business entrepreneurs that understand that not only is this good for 
America in terms of our environment and our national security but we 
could be very successful at it from a business point of view. We can 
create new technologies. We can do lots of things that create jobs, 
create revenue, create income, make our standard of living higher and 
greater. And we cannot only take that and build for America, this can 
be the next economic boom that exports our technology, our products, 
our sciences to other countries around the world. It's pretty exciting.

And I really believe very strongly that the great notions that have 
come out of today's bill recognize the fact that a few years ago when 
President Bush was inaugurated as President, oil was at $26 a barrel. 
Think about that. That's $26 a barrel. Today it's hovering around $100 
a barrel. And I know that every American should say shame on all of us, 
not only as elected officials, but also as American consumers, shame on 
us for allowing that to happen. That's not just a political thing; 
that's literally our responsibility. We have our own responsibility to 
make a decision and make a difference here.

So what we have done today, and I am joined by other members of our 
freshmen class and others and we are all going to talk about this for a 
few minutes, is pass a bill that does what we were talking about. It 
puts the emphasis, it puts the incentives, economic


and otherwise, into the science, the technology of renewable energy 
sources, whether it's wave power, wind power, any combination of coal, 
nuclear.

And, yes, I hear from so many people that some of these have issues, 
technology issues, safety issues. And they may. And it's up to us to 
solve those. Let's think big. I'm not here to advocate for any one of 
these alternatives. I think all of them have possibilities, and we have 
to make sure that all of them have the necessary safety and necessary 
science that goes with them before we move in any direction. But this 
is the time for us to focus all of our energy, our attention, and our 
resources on making sure our country is energy independent. And today 
is the first step where we are going to do that. And I look forward to 
working with all of our colleagues in the Senate and hopefully get our 
President to go along with us because I know America is ready, willing, 
and able to accomplish this goal.

I am joined by a good friend, Congressman Ellison. Congressman 
Ellison has been a very outspoken person on the importance of energy 
independence, and I'm going to yield to him to give his thoughts on 
today's action.

