---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `f05a30b0e69ef7c7b7806d243b74fe03`
`Mr. LEVIN — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the legislation before 
the House, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq 
Accountability Act. This measure supports our troops in the field. It 
provides more resources to ensure that our wounded service members and 
veterans receive the health care and support they need. And it sets a 
responsible timeline for the phased redeployment of our troops.

Our Nation continues to pay a high price for the administration's 
reckless invasion of Iraq and the President's open-ended commitment of 
U.S. military forces in that country. Our troops are entering their 
fifth year in Iraq, and there is no end in sight. The situation is 
deteriorating. Iraq is descending into a civil war.


For the last 4 years, the former Republican majority in the Congress 
sat on its hands and followed the President's policy like robots. The 
American people elected a new majority in the House and Senate so that 
Congress would stand up and stop being a rubber stamp for the 
President.

The President's open-ended policies of committing U.S. troops in Iraq 
for as long as it takes is not working. We need a new way forward. The 
only chance to salvage the situation in Iraq is to put real pressure on 
the Iraqis to take responsibility for their own future.

Last January 10, President Bush addressed the Nation and admitted 
that the situation in Iraq was descending into a vicious cycle of 
sectarian violence. He laid out a series of actions that the Iraqi 
Government would have to take; benchmarks that the Iraqis would have to 
follow through on or lose the support of the American people. The 
President said that Iraq would approve legislation to share oil revenue 
among the Iraq people; that Iraq would spend $10 billion of its own 
money on reconstruction and infrastructure projects; that Iraq would 
reform the laws governing de-Baathification and allow more Iraqis to 
re-enter their nation's political life; that Iraq would establish a 
fair process for considering amendments to Iraq's constitution; and 
that Iraq would set a schedule to conduct provincial and local 
elections. The President said, ''America will hold the Iraqi Government 
to the benchmarks it has announced.''

Since President Bush made that speech two months ago, 217 American 
soldiers have been killed in Iraq. More than 3,200 American soldiers 
have died since the war began. More than 23,000 have been wounded. 
Until the Iraqis step up to the plate and make the difficult political 
decisions that need to be made, the sectarian violence will continue 
and American military men and women will continue to be killed and 
wounded. Either the factions in Iraq are going to come together and 
make these decisions, or they are not. We should not leave our troops 
in harm's way indefinitely and just hand the President another blank 
check to continue an open-ended policy with no end in sight.

The legislation before the House supports the troops, both in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. It holds the Iraqi Government to the benchmarks for 
progress that the President outlined in his January 10 speech. Under 
this bill, if the President cannot certify that Iraq has achieved these 
benchmarks by October 1 of this year, a redeployment of U.S. troops 
begins immediately and must be completed within 180 days. Absent this 
pressure, the Iraqi Government will continue to postpone action on 
achieving the benchmarks. If the Iraqi Government does, indeed, meet 
the benchmarks by October 1, redeployment of U.S. forces would begin 
next March and be completed within 180 days.

After more than 4 years, this legislation would end the open-ended 
commitment to this war. It would set a clear timeline for the phased 
redeployment of U.S. troops. Without this pressure, there is little 
chance that the Iraqi leaders will make the decisions necessary to end 
civil war and build one nation. Our country cannot make these decisions 
for them. I urge passage of this legislation by the House.