# NATIONAL BOMBING PREVENTION ACT OF 2008
## `f06f7293a39a5ef2049f83d1eea4a028`
`Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California — 18 June 2008`

---


Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, before I begin I would ask that the Record include a 
letter from the National Tactical Officers Association to Congressman 
King and Congressman Rogers in support of this bill.




























 National Tactical






















 Officers Association,

















 Doylestown, PA, January 27, 2008.


 Hon. Peter T. King,


 Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee, Cannon 




 House Office Building, Washington, DC.


 Hon. Mike Rogers,


 Committee Member, Homeland Security and the House Armed 




 Services Committee, Cannon House Office Building, 




 Washington, DC.



 Dear Congressman King and Congressman Rogers: The National 


 Tactical Officers Association strongly supports Congressman 


 King's Bill (HR4749) amending the Homeland Security Act of 


 2002 to establish the Office for Bombing Prevention and 


 addressing terrorist explosive threats. We also continue to 


 support Senator Collins' and Senator Lieberman's Bill (S2292) 


 to increase funding for the Department of Homeland Security 


 Office for Bombing Prevention. Both amendments provide 


 important resources against the use of terrorist improvised 


 Explosive Devices, including coordination of national and 


 intergovernmental bombing prevention activities, 


 requirements, capabilities, gap analysis and information 


 sharing and awareness.



 The Department of Homeland Security Office for Bombing 


 Prevention coordinates national and intergovernmental bombing 


 prevention activities in our national bombing prevention 


 posture and runs information sharing and awareness programs 


 for State and local governments, law enforcement, first 


 responders, the private sector and the public. As recently 


 demonstrated in Glasgow, London and in daily news reports 


 from Iraq and Afghanistan, terrorist use of IEDs is a primary 


 threat. We commend you for your support and your leadership 


 in focusing the attention of the House and the nation on this 


 serious issue and on the role of the Department of Homeland 


 Security Office for Bombing Prevention in leading national 


 efforts to prevent the use of explosives by terrorists in the 


 United States.



 The NTOA is the professional association for law 


 enforcement personnel, sworn correctional officers, tactical 


 emergency medical personnel, military police and special 


 operations personnel who specialize in the resolution of 


 critical incidents. Since 1983, NTOA has worked to provide 


 professional education, training and research for law 


 enforcement personnel engaged in tactical missions and 


 currently has over 30,000 members representing over 1,600 


 police agencies. NTOA has worked with the Department of 


 Homeland Security Office for Bombing Prevention to integrate 


 SWAT and bomb squad personnel and capabilities to protect 


 soft targets against threats for an armed adversary using 


 explosive devices, as seen in the 2004 Beslan School attack 


 in Russia. OBP provides an invaluable resource to State and 


 local law enforcement through the Tripwire system which 


 allows responders to access an unprecedented library of 


 information and analysis on terrorist IED tactics, techniques 


 and procedures. TRlPwire provides SWAT operators with the 


 knowledge needed to identify explosive hazards, including IED 


 components and potential terrorist tactics, during high risk 


 operations.



 The Department of Homeland Security's Office for Bombing 


 Prevention has been an exemplary partner for its State and 


 local stakeholders in the bombing prevention and law 


 enforcement communities. The National Tactical Officers 


 Association applauds Senator Collins, Senator Lieberman, 


 Representative Rogers and yourself for your support for the 


 bombing prevention community.





 Sincerely,



























John Gnagey,























 Executive Director.


Madam Speaker, the ranking member of Homeland Security, Peter King of 
New York, introduced this bill to authorize the Office of Bombing 
Prevention within the Department of Homeland Security. He would 
obviously be here were he not attending the family funeral for Tim 
Russert, and I am here in his stead.

The Office of Bombing Prevention provides the necessary analysis and 
coordination of our Nation's bomb prevention capability to best protect 
our citizens from the threat posed by explosive materials. We only need 
to look at terrorist activities overseas to understand that 
conventional and improvised explosive devices, IEDs, are a terrorist's 
weapon of choice against military and civilian targets.

Within the United States, we have been subject to our own share of 
explosive attacks, including the 1993 World Trade Center bombings, the 
1995 Oklahoma City bombing, the Centennial Olympic Park bombing, among 
others. State and local authorities have developed the capabilities to 
respond to potential explosive threats and to neutralize them.

As a matter of fact, these are among the bravest men and women that 
we have as our first responders. Yet without the office established in 
this bill, there would be no analysis of our nationwide capability to 
respond to explosive threats, or where gaps exist in training, 
equipment and personnel against a national baseline.

This analysis will assist State and local officials in applying for 
Homeland Security grants to fill these gaps. As has been mentioned many 
times on this floor, there has been a bipartisan effort through our 
committee to ensure that we take a risk-based approach to the terrorist 
threat. It makes the most sense. It is one that both sides of the aisle 
have been committed to, and this enables that even further.

Furthermore, this legislation will authorize the Office to continue 
to promote information sharing and IED security awareness through 
advanced bomb prevention techniques and usable information. The Office 
uses a secure Web site known as TRIPwire to provide to bomb prevention 
officials across the country access to current terrorist IED tactics, 
techniques and procedures, along with expert analysis and reports, 
making it a one-stop shop for actionable information.

As we all know, our troops have had extensive experience with IEDs in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. This legislation instructs the Secretary of 
Homeland Security to work closely with the Department of Defense to 
take advantage of what our troops have learned on the battlefield, both 
in tactics and technology, to improve the capability of our first 
responders here at home.

Preventing a bomb from going off should involve more than just those 
first responders attempting to neutralize the threat once the bomb has 
been placed. Education and awareness programs regarding the threat of 
IEDs are also included in this legislation to ensure information on 
explosive precursors is provided to merchants so that they can 
recognize suspicious purchases.

Additionally, this legislation includes an amendment from our 
committee colleague, Mike Rogers of Alabama, to improve the canine 
explosive detection teams in use around the country. These canine teams 
are invaluable resources to detect and deter IED attacks before they 
occur.

It is important to note that this office is not designed to replace 
existing elements of counter-explosive expertise already found in the 
Federal Government, but, rather, to assist in coordinating State, local 
and tribal capability. In fact, as I said, the National Tactical 
Officers Association supports this legislation in the letter that has 
been entered into the Record.

The need for this Office of Bombing Prevention is clear. Therefore, I 
urge all of my colleagues to support passage of H.R. 4749.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.