# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `f072a775663daeefca2493b3f75b7d89`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 22 March 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, the House is poised to vote on 
legislation that, if passed, will cripple our foreign policy for many 
years to come and place our troops and all American citizens in great 
danger. It is a bill that seeks to abandon the Iraqi people, that seeks 
to abandon our closest friends and allies in the Middle East, leaving 
them to fend for themselves against radical Islamic militant jihadists. 
It is a bill that provides a roadmap for the insurgents, giving them a 
detailed account of the benchmarks they need to focus on in order to 
ensure an American withdrawal from Iraq.

Regardless of victory or failure, this bill demands withdrawal from 
Iraq. It


demonstrates very little confidence in the ability of our troops to get 
the job done in Iraq and defeat the terrorists there.

My stepson Doug and my daughter-in-law Lindsey have served proudly as 
marine fighter pilots in Iraq, and Lindsey will soon head back to 
another tour of duty in Iraq. They do not believe that you can separate 
the soldier from the mission. They do not believe that we have an 
option to simply walk away. Doug and Lindsey and many others like them 
do not want Congress to add to the burdens and the dangers that they 
face by legislating restrictions, deadlines and arbitrary instructions 
that only benefit the enemy.

The obvious danger of this legislation has been demonstrated by the 
desperate measures that the majority has resorted to in order to 
overcome fierce resistance in their own caucus. An emergency war 
funding measure should not be used to pay for programs that benefit 
narrow, favored constituencies.

I doubt that this ambition by the majority to micromanage the war 
will be their last attempt. Are they envisioning assuming command and 
control of the positioning and movement of our troops; of setting daily 
targets for air strikes; of determining our negotiation strategy with 
allies and opponents?



Perhaps a war room should be set up outside this Chamber so that they 
can make it easier to offer instructions on the battlefield.