---
---

# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `f0aa041d9ff850bd9816d3dc2924f5cb`
`Mr. KERRY — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, we are known happily as the world's 
greatest deliberative body and the world's greatest democracy. There 
are times when I have been here when we have indeed lived up to that 
reputation, and it has been exciting and rewarding. We also are blessed 
to serve in an institution where very frequently we extol the virtues 
of our commitment to spreading freedom around the globe. We take that 
seriously. I don't think there is a Senator here who doesn't believe in 
our responsibility to do that and who isn't proud of America's role in 
being able to do that in many parts of the world where we have made a 
difference.

However, in recent days here in Washington, the news earlier this 
week that Morgan Tsvangirai, the leader of Zimbabwe's main opposition 
party, was forced to withdraw from a runoff election that was scheduled 
for tomorrow, that news was regrettably met by an absence of the kind 
of outrage that it demands and, frankly, by an absence of action of any 
kind in the global community.

It is important for the Senate, in my judgment, to forcefully condemn 
a shockingly brutal campaign, an overt, visible for everybody to see, 
disdainful, arrogant campaign of violence and intimidation that has 
been launched by President Robert Mugabe and his henchmen which 
rendered free and fair elections in Zimbabwe impossible.

Morgan Tsvangirai's courageous decision not to put his supporters at 
further risk in an election that Mugabe explicitly said he would not 
respect if he did not win ought to be a wake-up call for the world and 
especially to the African leaders who have the most influence over 
Zimbabwe.

Action is long overdue. For months now, Mugabe's thugs have savaged 
opposition politicians, civil society activists, and anyone else who 
dared to dream of a peaceful end to his rein of terror. Villagers have 
literally been handed bullets by soldiers and told to choose between 
democracy or their lives.

Since the initial balloting in March, the MDC--the Movement for 
Democracy--believes that at least 86 of its supporters have been 
killed, over 10,000 have been injured, 2,000 unlawfully detained, and 
200,000 have fled their homes. In fact, the details of this campaign of 
violence and intimidation are even more horrifying than the statistics 
convey. Women have been burned to death. Young men have been tortured 
and dismembered, and the elderly have been savagely beaten.

In fact, it is hard to imagine a campaign of political murder as 
brazen and visible to everybody as the one that has been unleashed on 
unarmed innocents, with a sense of complete inability to be touched by 
any civil forces outside. Mugabe very matter of factly stated last 
week:




 We are not going to give up our country because of a mere X 


 on a ballot. How can a ballpoint pen fight with a gun?


I believe someone with that kind of attitude--willing to strip away 
democracy that all of the African nations, European nations, civilized 
nations of the world, and United Nations have agreed is the right of 
the people of Zimbabwe--that kind of attitude deserves the outrage and 
action that it asks for.

We know that even if Tsvangirai had not withdrawn, there was a 
unanimous consensus that Mugabe would have stolen the election by 
simply rigging the ballots. Once again, this unapologetic dictator 
telegraphed his intentions, saying that only God, not the voters of 
Zimbabwe, could remove him from office.

Democracy in Zimbabwe is not the only casualty of the news this week. 
Every bit as damaged, frankly, is the moral authority of the 
international community. Make no mistake, Mugabe is thumbing his nose 
at the international community. Daring them, with a sense of complete 
impunity, he is inviolable in whatever thuggery he wants to engage in. 
That is because he has heard the world say ''never again'' again and 
again. Then he has watched the world engage in collective hand-wringing 
as mass atrocities unfold and nothing happens, just like the last time.

Well, this can't be allowed to continue. Until recently, there was 
little hope of vigorous international response. But Tsvangirai's 
selfless act of courage hopefully now can act as a catalyst for change.

On Monday, the United Nations Security Council, including China and 
Russia, issued its first condemnation of violence, acknowledging it 
would be impossible for a free and fair election to take place. A day 
later, some of Africa's influential leaders called Mugabe out for the 
savagery of his intentions in this free election process. That has now 
made it, thankfully, more difficult for him to try to disguise the 
violence as a struggle against postcolonial bullying. Yesterday, that 
international community demanded that he postpone the runoff elections 
and negotiate with Tsvangirai.

Just yesterday, on his 90th birthday, Nelson Mandela lent his voice 
of moral authority to condemn what he called the ''tragic failure of 
leadership in our neighboring Zimbabwe.'' Those are strong words, and I 
think obviously those words--coming from Nelson Mandela, the former 
President of South Africa and really founding President of their 
democracy today--those words diminish Mugabe's legitimacy.

Obviously, words aren't going to save Zimbabwe's people. The 
international community needs to take action, and it needs to take 
action that sends the regime in Zimbabwe a simple, unequivocal message: 
Mugabe must go. If he thinks only God can remove him and shows such 
extraordinary disrespect for the people of his country, clearly the 
international community has a responsibility to make it impossible for 
him to do anything else but go.

The Senate passed a resolution that I submitted in late April, but, 
frankly, resolutions don't get the job done. They indicate an intent, a 
desire by the Senate, perhaps; they indicate that we are taking notice 
of what is happening. But this is now a matter of life and death. It is 
also a matter of the credibility of the international community.

If words such as ''never again'' with respect to a holocaust mean 
something or if the lessons of Bosnia, Herzegovina, and the other 
disruptions that we have seen in other parts of the world mean 
anything, then we have to do whatever is necessary to be able to bring 
about a timely end to the violence and a peaceful transition to 
democracy.

The U.N. Security Council needs to impose, immediately, quickly, 
targeted sanctions on Mugabe. It needs to impose them on his cronies 
and his family. It needs to make it clear to them that they cannot do 
what they are doing with impunity. Freezing bank accounts and imposing 
further travel restrictions are punishments that may lead those around 
Mugabe to begin to reassess their own self-interests, without doing 
harm to the people who have already had harm done to them by this 
dictatorship.

The real leverage and legitimacy to motivate, mediate, and monitor a 
negotiated solution lies in the heart of Africa itself. The Southern 
Africa Development Community and the African Union have, frankly, too 
often been willing to sit on the sidelines. They need to play a 
sustained and active role in resolving this crisis in a way that 
respects the will of Zimbabwe's people. They need to do that now with 
the help of the European Community, ourselves, and the U.N. itself.

If Mugabe refuses to step down, both the Southern African Development 
Community and the African Union should suspend Zimbabwe's membership 
immediately and consider applying their own sanctions. I met the other 
day with the ambassadors from Botswana in South Africa and Zambia, and 
they agreed that if Mugabe stays now in a situation where he has 
nullified unilaterally the ability to have an election, he is, in fact, 
an unconstitutional leader of the country. Under the charter of the 
African Union, the Constitution, they would be completely within their 
rights--in fact, it would be imperative that they move to isolate him 
because he no longer would be a legal leader of that country.

The United States and the European Union need to stand squarely 
alongside African governments in withdrawing recognition from the 
illegitimate Mugabe regime and impose additional sanctions targeting 
his criminal cabal. Until recently, a few African leaders have proven 
to be an obstacle to the crisis. South Africa's President Thabo


Mbeki is perhaps the most prominent example, sadly. I think many people 
had a much higher expectation of President Mbeki. I have known him and 
worked with him. I regret that in this situation Mr. Mbeki has chosen 
to ignore the warnings of his predecessor and icon and of others. It 
has been some time now that the world has been waiting for Thabo Mbeki 
in South Africa to weigh in squarely with respect to Zimbabwe's future.

I believe President Mbeki is going to be judged by history for his 
response to this crisis. As the leader of the region's powerhouse in 
the southern African community, the development community's mediator in 
this crisis, President Mbeki still has an opportunity to turn up the 
heat on Mugabe, while also helping facilitate a respectable way out.

The world cannot afford for President Mbeki to remain out of step 
with other countries in the region, not to mention his own political 
party, in condoning Mugabe's brutality. If he chooses to continue on 
this ineffectual path, then President Mbeki will remain, in fact, 
complicit in the tragic events in Zimbabwe and risk isolating himself 
internationally, as well as in his own country. If Mugabe surrenders 
and a genuinely democratic government, committed to implementing the 
needed economic and political reforms, is formed, Zimbabwe's new leader 
will be left to pick up the pieces of an economy that has been run into 
the ground by Mugabe.

Annual inflation is reportedly running at over 150,000 percent. 
Unemployment stands at over 80 percent. Hunger grips 4 million people. 
An estimated 3,500 people die each week from hunger, disease, and other 
causes related to grinding poverty. The United States and the 
international community must be prepared to provide a comprehensive, 
economic, and political recovery package that will help the people 
recover from so many years of abuse and neglect.

Right now, our most urgent challenge is to protect the innocent 
people in Zimbabwe who have been devastated by violence, starvation or 
inadequate access to essential care and services. We need to do that by 
pushing Africa's leaders to restore and expand humanitarian aid, 
deploying a civil protection force to prevent attacks, help victims, 
and pursue vicious criminals. Matching words with action is a great 
challenge of this body, the Senate, and particularly it is the 
responsibility of this administration. This is a test for our 
collective moral authority, our willingness to lead with our values, 
and a test of whether we are going to send the strong, necessary 
message to the people of Zimbabwe, and indeed the people in all of 
Africa, that we support their aspirations for a free and democratic 
country.

We are losing lives almost every single day in Iraq. We are spending 
$12 billion a month. We invaded that country, purportedly, to bring 
them democracy. We support other countries in the Middle East--Lebanon 
and others--that are struggling to have democracy. We can't be 
regionally selective about where the virtues of democracy make a 
difference. In Africa, where for too long people have been neglected, 
even abandoned--and too many times they believe the rest of the world 
doesn't care--this is an opportunity for us to send a different kind of 
message and make a different kind of difference. I hope they will know 
that the free world will stand with the aspirations of those who are 
willing to risk their lives to have a better future and to actually 
give meaning, through our support, for free elections and democracy 
everywhere in the world.

I yield the floor.