# EMBRYONIC STEM CELL RESEARCH
## `f0af17670f9b10542b6e6acfa3e1d282`
`Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, I come to the floor this 
evening to talk about embryonic stem cells. With all of the pressing 
issues of global importance that our country and the Congress is 
dealing with, you might ask, why are you going the talk about embryonic 
stem cells this evening; why are you not talking about the potential 
for global warming and what that might hold in store for our world.



We might be talking about the pending energy crisis and the concept 
of peak oil, and certainly we might be talking about the war in Iraq 
and the funding resolution that will shortly come before the House. Or 
we could be talking about a very interesting subject: the debt limit 
ceiling and why we have to increase the debt limit ceiling and what is 
that and how does it relate to the debt and the deficit and so forth?

We come to the floor this evening to talk about stem cells because a 
stem cell bill will very shortly come up in the Senate, perhaps even 
this week. Very probably if not this week, next week. But to put this 
in context, we have got to go back to last year when there were two 
embryonic stem cell bills that came before the House and the Senate. 
One of those started in the House and was known as the Castle-DeGette 
bill. This was a bill that would permit Federal funding for cells taken 
from embryos that were surplus in the fertility clinics across the 
country, and I understand there may be as many as 400,000 surplus 
embryos that are now frozen in these fertility clinics. This would 
result in the death of the embryo, and a meaningful percentage of our 
population does not believe that it is appropriate to destroy one life 
in the hopes that you might help another. So although this bill got a 
positive vote in the House last year, it was nowhere near enough to 
override a presidential veto.

There was a second bill that was introduced. I introduced that second 
bill along with my friend Dr. Gingrey, and that bill garnered 273 votes 
in the House. You might say that is enough to win, but it was brought 
up under suspension, which means we need two-thirds majority, and that 
day that would have been 286 votes; so we failed by 13 votes to get the 
necessary majority, the two-thirds majority, to pass it.

Both of those bills were our bills, the Senate 2754 and the House 
bill 5526. And along with the Castle-DeGette bill and the alternative 
bill, which would not result in the destruction of embryos, our bill 
got 100 percent of the Senators. That is, 100 Senators voting for the 
bill. It is interesting that there were 63 Senators that voted for both 
of these bills. They included Senator Arlen Specter, who introduced 
both of these bills in the Senate; and it also included Senators Reid, 
Harkin, Kennedy, Clinton, Obama, and Schumer. Those Senators voted for 
all of these bills.

We have now passed, essentially, the Castle-DeGette bill again in the 
House with 253 ayes and 174 noes, and that is nowhere near close to the 
number that it would take to override a presidential veto. And in the 
last Congress, the President vetoed the Castle-DeGette bill, and he has 
promised to and certainly will veto it this time should it get to his 
desk. This is the bill that the Senate will be voting on next week. So 
that is why we are on the floor today talking about this bill. By the 
way, our bill is 322, and it has been cosponsored so far by 34, truly 
bipartisan support for which I am very pleased.

I thought to begin this discussion of embryonic stem cells we might 
go back to the basic physiology of what we are talking about here. And 
the first chart I have here shows half of the reproductive tract in a 
woman. There is another half to this on the other side, a mirror image 
of this. Most things in our body are mirror images. Things like the 
liver are not and the stomach. We have two arms and two eyes, and the 
lady has two ovaducts and two ovaries and so forth. And this shows the 
stages of development of the embryo. And, of course, what we will be 
talking about is not what happens in the body but what happens in a 
petri dish in the laboratory. But the embryo goes through the same 
stages of development in the petri dish in the laboratory as it does in 
the ovaduct of the prospective mother.

Here we have the ovary, and it contains a very large number of 
primary cells, which when they develop will become ova. And once a 
month typically, every 4 weeks, typically, one of the ova matures and 
the little follicle then ruptures and the ovum comes out. And it is 
interesting that the ovary is not connected to the rest of the 
reproductive tract of the female. But there is a funnel-like thing, and 
we see only a part of the funnel here. This part and this part goes 
clearly around it. And it is called the infundibulum, and this process 
is called ovulation. The egg now is released from the mature follicle, 
and it is usually picked up by the infundibulum and directed into the 
ovaduct. On occasion it may not be and it may escape out into the body 
cavity or the celium, which simply means the cavity. And these sperm, 
millions of which were released in the uterus and they make their way 
into the fallopian tubes, and some of those sperm actually get out into 
the body cavity. And this egg that is not picked up by the infundibulum 
may be out of the body cavity and it may be fertilized by the sperm 
that gets there, and this is called an ectopic pregnancy. And it is 
very bad news for the mother and the embryo, and it has to be 
terminated with surgery. But usually, most of the time, the ovum is 
picked up by the fallopian tube and it begins its way down the 
fallopian tube.

Notice that fertilization takes place, and that is when the clock 
starts running, called DZero. Fertilization takes place well up into 
the ovaduct. And there is a several-day journey. You see them here, 
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, on down. And the 
fertilized egg now is called a zygote, and it begins to divide. And 
here you see it is at a two-cell stage, and a little later we will have 
some charts that show what can happen at this two-cell stage and even 
later. But frequently these two cells will simply separate until you 
have two cells that look like the original one you started with here, 
and that is what we called identical twins. Then they will make their 
way down the fallopian tube together and implant in an interesting way 
in the uterus as we will see later. And then the two cells divide and 
develop into four cells and then the four cells into eight cells. And 
we will come back and talk about this eight-cell stage because that is 
the time at which some procedures are done in the petri dish which 
promise that we can get true embryonic stem cells from embryos without 
harming the embryo.

Well, the cell then goes on to divide beyond the eight-cell stage. 
And you


now have a morula, a ball of cells which may be a fairly large number 
of cells, maybe 100 or fewer cells. And then it goes on to divide into 
a very large number of cells, and that is the gastrula stage. The 
morula and the blastula and then on to the gastrula down here. The 
gastrula stage develops into three germ layers.

The next chart shows a little more clearly what is happening. And 
here it started with a zygote and it skipped all of the stages that we 
talked about here, the two-cell, four-cell, eight-cell stage and so 
forth. And it goes directly now down to the blastocyst and then on down 
to the gastrula. And then the gastrula, we see the three germ layers 
developing.

And notice that most of what we have here is not going to end up as 
an embryo. What is going to end up as an embryo is this little bit of 
material here, and the rest of it is going to end up as supporting 
tissue, the amnion and the chorion and the fetal contribution to the 
placenta and so forth. But at this stage, just about the time the egg 
is implanting, as you saw, and by ''implanting'' we mean it connects 
itself to the uterus, this cell is implanting at about the time that 
the three germ layers are developed.

From these three germ layers will develop all of the tissues of the 
body. These three germ layers are called the outer germ layer, or the 
ectoderm; the middle germ layer, or the mesoderm; and the inner germ 
layer, or the entoderm.

From the ectoderm develops our skin, the integumen, which is defined 
as an organ. It is about the biggest organ in the body, actually, and a 
very complex and interesting one. And then the brain and spinal cord 
all of our nervous system develops from the ectoderm.

From the mesoderm develops most of the mass of our body, the muscles 
and the bones and the blood. Here you see the blood, which is a tissue 
that develops from the mesoderm. From the entoderm develops the lining 
of the gut and the lining of the lungs and so forth, although the mass 
of the entodermal tissue is nowhere near as large as the mesoderm and 
the ectoderm. In some organs they play a very essential role.

It is interesting that when you have a cancer and it metastasizes, it 
metastasizes usually only two tissues of common embryonic origin. What 
that means is that if you have a cancer on mesodermal tissue, when 
these cells break loose and float through the lymph system, it will 
metastasize only to tissues that develop from mesoderm. So it is very 
interesting that all through the life of the person, these tissues 
retain some of the original characteristics of these three germ layers. 
And the body cells, the T cells and so forth are programmed to know the 
difference between these body tissues.

I mentioned T cells. I shouldn't do that without explaining a little 
bit of what they are. Very early in our embryonic development, there 
are some unique cells that will end up in the blood. Some unique cells 
are developed, and they are now imprinted with who you are, and this is 
very early in development. And it is their role all through your life 
after that to keep track of who you are and identify any invader that 
is not you. So if a virus or a bacterium or something like that gets 
in, the T cells immediately detect that as being foreign and they now 
alert the leukocytes, which are the white blood cells, which have 
phagocytic, which means they can envelope and ingest. These organisms 
have phagocytic activity, alert them that that is an enemy and you need 
to take him out. And that is called our response system to infections 
and so forth. And, by the way, if you have a little pus pocket, that is 
the remains of thousands, maybe millions of these leukocytes that have 
come to do battle for you, and they have died in the process. But not 
to worry. Your bone marrow and lymph system are making a whole lot more 
lymphocytes.

Sometimes these T cells get confused, and it is not really clear to 
them what is you and what is not you. And sometimes they will falsely 
identify some of your tissues as being foreign to you, and then the 
leukocytes will come in and attack the other body defenses will come in 
and attack these tissues.



We refer to these diseases, and there are a whole long list of them, 
as being autoimmune diseases. I have one of those diseases, and many, 
many people have that. Some types of arthritis is an autoimmune 
disease. You have the arthritis because your T cells have 
inappropriately identified these joint tissues in your body as not 
being used, so they are now being attacked by the body defenses.

I want to look at just one more slide and then call on a colleague of 
mine, Dr. Gingrey, who has joined me in filing this bill.

This is a little illustration of what happens with monozygotic twins. 
Mono means one, and you saw what the zygote was. That is the fertilized 
ovum. Monozygotic twins, we call them identical twins. It begins with 
the fertilized egg, the zygote, the two-cell stage, then it may develop 
to two inner masses. Actually, the division can occur at the two-cell 
stage. The division, we have some reason to believe it can occur as the 
two inner cell mass stages. These will later develop into the three 
germ layers we talked about.

You can differentiate when that division occurred by how the babies 
present themselves at birth, whether they are in two amnions or in a 
common amnion. They, of course, should always be in a common chorion. 
The chorion is the big tough sac on the outside. The amnion is the 
thinner sac on the inside filled with the fluid called the amniotic 
fluid that protects the baby during its development.

I would like to note, by the way, that one of these two identical 
twins is a clone. I didn't think the sky was going to fall when we 
talked about cloning, because nature has been doing it for a very long 
time. But sometimes we should let nature do things and not mimic or 
interfere in what nature is doing, and I understand the concerns 
relative to cloning. But it is just of interest to note that nature has 
been doing this for a very long time.

Dr. Gingrey has joined us. Let me now yield to him.