---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f0afafd1fb74c1df0eeb66668188c6d1`
`Mr. HOLDEN — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. HOLDEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Concurrent Resolution 
63. I


also rise in strong support of the brave men and women who have served 
or are serving in Iraq and around the world.

I represent thousands of men and women on Active Duty and in the 
National Guard and in the Reserves. I have visited our wounded and 
injured troops at both Walter Reed and Landstuhl Regional Center in 
Germany. My commitment to our brave men and women is unwavering. 
However, I disagree with deploying more than 20,000 more U.S. combat 
troops to Iraq.

The President has consistently said that the size of the force would 
be determined by military leaders on the ground. Yet the two previous 
leading commanders on the ground do not support the addition of more 
troops. General George Casey, the former commander of the Multinational 
Force in Iraq and current chief of staff of the Army, advocated 
transferring security duties to Iraqi soldiers.

General Casey said, ''The longer we and the U.S. forces continue to 
bear the main burden of Iraq's security, it lengthens the time that the 
Government of Iraq has to make the hard decisions about reconciliation 
and dealing with the militias.'' He goes on to say, ''And the other 
thing is that they continue to blame us for all of Iraq's problems, 
which at face are their problems. It has always been my view that a 
heavy and sustained American military presence was not going to solve 
the problems in Iraq in the long run.''

Additionally, General John P. Abizaid, the former commander of U.S. 
Central Command in the Middle East, has said that he did not believe 
that adding more American troops right now is the solution to the 
problem, and also advocated transferring responsibility to the Iraqis.

General Abizaid said, ''I met with every divisional commander, 
General Casey, the Corps Commander, General Dempsey. We all talked 
together. And I said, in your professional opinion, if we were to bring 
in more American troops now, does it add considerably to our ability to 
achieve success in Iraq? And they all said no. And the reason is 
because we want the Iraqis to do more. It is easy for the Iraqis to 
rely upon us to do this work. I believe that more American forces 
prevent the Iraqis from doing more, from taking more responsibility for 
their own future.''

During the course of the war, I visited Iraq twice, in 2003 and 2005. 
While I was there, the main goal, other than achieving victory, was 
developing Iraq's infrastructure. Yet after 4 years and hundreds of 
billions of dollars, we have not had much success in improving 
infrastructure and still face serious problems. Oil production is one-
half of the prewar level, while conditions of basic services, such as 
water, power and sewage, are below that. In Baghdad, electricity levels 
are at an all-time low. And while we have spent billions of dollars on 
these problems, $9 billion is lost and unaccounted for.



That is why I also rise today in support of the Blue Dog resolution 
which provides cost accountability for Operation Iraqi Freedom. This 
resolution will directly address the infrastructure and security 
failures in Iraq. More specifically, the resolution requires the 
Department of Defense Inspector General and the Special Inspector 
General for Iraqi Reconstruction to report to Congress every 90 days 
with:

One, a detailed accounting of how military and reconstruction funds 
in Iraq have been spent;

Two, a detailed accounting of the types and terms of contracts 
awarded on behalf of the United States;

Three, a description of efforts to obtain support and assistance from 
other countries toward the rehabilitation of Iraq; and, finally,

Four, an assessment of what additional funding is needed to complete 
military operations and reconstruction efforts in Iraq, including a 
plan for the security of Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, our troops have done their job and performed with great 
courage and honor. The solution in Iraq can no longer be resolved 
militarily. We must win both politically and diplomatically. We must 
ask Iraq's six neighbors to use influence that is consistent with our 
own objectives, and we must convince them that stability in the region 
is in their best interests.

In closing, I want to offer my utmost gratitude and appreciation for 
our troops. Our thoughts are with these brave men and women and also 
with their families as we pray for them to return safely.