---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `f0d472ad0c0ffe2ad19d2dbc6b8a1182`
`Mr. PLATTS — 28 May 2010`

---


Mr. PLATTS. Mr. Chair, I am proud to have joined with my friend from 
Texas, Mr. Sessions, in introducing this amendment which will provide 
our servicemembers that are affected by Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) 
with access to cutting-edge treatments. As we all know, TBIs have 
become the ''signature wound'' of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Record numbers of troops return to American soil in need of treatment 
and rehabilitation. While the Department of Defense has been a leader 
in providing treatment to our wounded warriors, it has been slow to 
embrace innovative treatments, such as Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy.

This amendment would establish a five-year ''pay for performance'' 
innovative treatment pilot program. The pilot program would allow 
healthcare providers outside of the Department of Defense to treat 
active duty military personnel and veterans with cutting-edge TBI 
treatments not offered at military medical facilities. The private 
healthcare providers would only receive reimbursement from the 
Department of Defense if the treatment was proven to be successful. 
Servicemembers and veterans who voluntarily opt into this program would 
do so at no cost.

I see this amendment as a win-win. Not only will our troops receive 
access to innovative therapies, but it encourages the private sector to 
invest in new and inventive treatments for TBI. The amendment also 
requires the Department of Defense to maintain a database to track the 
effectiveness of such treatments. It is my hope that after the 
conclusion of this five-year pilot, the Department of Defense will 
begin providing proven therapies at military medical facilities.

Our men and women in uniform deserve the best treatments available. 
This common-sense amendment would help to expand access to new 
therapies in a fiscally responsible way. I encourage all of my 
colleagues to join with me to support this amendment.
