# FULL-YEAR CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2011
## `f0d9f68f40157efd311846651e1e7fd6`
`Mr. HOLT — 8 December 2010`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, I am voting for the funding bill before us 
today but not without deep reservations. Each of the appropriations 
subcommittees considered bills for Fiscal Year 2011, but only two were 
brought to the floor for a vote. All twelve appropriations bills 
deserved a vote by the full House. Instead, we are freezing spending 
levels across the board and carrying forward most of the spending 
decisions made last year without a full and fair debate on the 
consequences for today's economy and today's needs. Surely this action 
does not live up to the responsibility that our constituents have 
entrusted to us.

The results of our failure to fully weigh the tradeoffs of our 
spending choices are not inconsequential. Even though serious questions 
remain about the effectiveness and safety of full body imaging devices, 
this bill increases funding for the Transportation Security 
Administration to procure, deploy, and staff new full body scanners in 
America's airports. To keep spending levels constant, the bill 
unilaterally ends funding for certain election reform programs, reduces 
funding for high speed rail, and forces the Department of Energy to 
raid funding for renewable energy and basic science programs in order 
to pay for the Advanced Research Projects Agency--Energy. This one-year 
funding bill freezes the pay of our dedicated public servants for two 
years even though non-military federal worker salaries did not create 
our deficit and a freeze will not solve our budget problems. While I'm 
pleased that this bill includes funds for a 1.4 percent military pay 
raise and additional funding to help our troops and their families, I 
regret that the bill includes tens of billions of dollars for ongoing 
combat operations in Afghanistan. Our continued military operations in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan are not making us safer, and the billions we 
are wasting on these wars is money that could be far better spent at 
home--to hire more police for our communities, build new schools, and 
replace our aging and increasingly dangerous road and rail bridges.

Yet even with these and many other significant problems, this bill 
will keep our government operating and uphold many of our important 
commitments. Low-income working families will receive badly needed 
childcare and housing assistance. Our military personnel will receive 
the benefits and care they need, and our veterans will have their 
benefits claims processed in a more timely manner. We will fully fund 
our aid agreement with Israel and maintain assistance programs for 
other countries, including Egypt, Jordan, and Pakistan. Students will 
continue to receive Pell grants, and the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency will have the resources necessary to respond to natural 
disasters.

The choice presented to us in the form of this bill should not be. We 
are putting off the tough decisions that deserve careful consideration 
and reasoned compromise. We can and should make that effort. Yet on 
balance, I believe this bill is necessary, even if the process and the 
product are clearly insufficient.