# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `f0e3936ec692d67eefce4b797e72929b`
`Mrs. LOWEY â€” 20 June 2007`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Chairman, I'm pleased to present to the House H.R. 2764, the 
fiscal year 2008 appropriations bill for the Department of State, 
foreign operations and related programs.

I'm particularly pleased that the appropriations bill that I bring to 
the floor as chairwoman of the State Foreign Operations Subcommittee 
reflects a bipartisan process, and that the ranking member, Frank Wolf, 
was instrumental in pulling this bill together, as well as a very 
talented and engaged subcommittee.

I'm very proud of our product. The bill before you totals $34.243 
billion in new discretionary budget authority, $2.9 billion above 
fiscal year 2007, not counting supplemental appropriations, and $700 
million below the President's request. This is the largest increase 
over the prior year enacted level that this subcommittee has received 
in over a decade. I appreciate Chairman Obey's recognition of the 
importance of this bill and the programs it funds.

The bill includes over $7 billion to address our strategic priorities 
and national security interests, as well as increases for programs that 
promote development and reduce low global poverty, meet humanitarian 
needs, and respond to urgent health crises, priorities at the core of 
our interests abroad.

For the war on terror, this bill includes $2.656 billion in economic 
assistance for our strategic partners and $4.509 billion in military 
assistance. While the bill includes $1.057 billion for Afghanistan, 
there are no additional funds for Iraq. In light of the $2.86 billion 
provided for Iraq reconstruction in the recently passed supplemental 
appropriations bill, and the $2.89 billion requested by the 
administration in the 2008 supplemental, I feel extremely strongly that 
there is no need at this time for additional funds for the same 
purposes in this bill, given the extraordinary needs to be met around 
the world.

The bill includes over $4.7 billion to support State Department 
operations, both in the United States and abroad. The recommendation 
fully funds the President's request for worldwide security upgrades, 
and provides $364 million for public diplomacy efforts at the State 
Department, as well as $501 million for educational and cultural 
exchanges.

The bill also provides $6.517 billion for global health. Addressing 
tuberculosis, avian flu, HIV/AIDS and other health threats is one of 
the best preventive measures to protect the health of the United 
States. We provide $5.082 billion for international HIV/AIDS efforts, 
which, in addition to appropriations in other bills, brings the total 
for international HIV/AIDS to $5.876 billion. This is $550 million 
above the President's fiscal year 2008 budget request, and includes 
$850 million for the global fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and 
malaria.

The bill also includes $1.73 billion for development programs managed 
by the U.S. Agency for International Development, an increase of $225 
million above the fiscal year 2007 enacted level. The increased 
resources will fund an initiative on basic education for developing 
countries, as well as an expansion of safe water and environment 
programs.

As many of you know, basic education has been one of my top 
priorities for years and, I'm pleased to say, a top priority of the 
members of this committee. I'm convinced that access to quality primary 
education not only improves an individual's chances for a better, more 
productive life, it creates a more tolerant and informed citizenry. 
I've provided a total of $750 million for basic education in the bill, 
an increase of $200 million from the fiscal year 2007 House-passed 
bill.

This bill also provides $501 million for the environment and clean 
energy programs, including $106 million for the global environmental 
facility, and $175 million for biodiversity programs at USAID. We've 
also included a provision that encourages the Export-Import Bank to 
support projects in renewable energy and other environmentally 
beneficial products. This initiative could result in an estimated $1 
billion in additional green exports in 2008.

There is $1.8 billion for the Millennium Challenge Account. This is a 
$1.2 billion reduction from the request, but $48 million above the 
fiscal year 2007 enacted level. I'm supportive of the MCA. I want to 
make this very clear. And while I believe the MCA is under the strong 
and capable management of Ambassador Danilovich, I would like to see 
more results on the ground from the $6 billion that has already been 
appropriated, $2.1 billion of which is not yet even obligated, before 
we significantly scale-up the MCA. The reduction to MCA helps us 
address the shortfalls for development assistance and health accounts. 
We have also funded a basic education initiative as well as expansion 
of safe water and environmental programs.

With an investment of over $5 billion in the 6 years that Plan 
Colombia has been in effect, the numbers of hectares involved in coca 
production has increased by 42 percent. Because our efforts to combat 
narcotics in Colombia have been ineffective for some time, this bill 
restructures assistance for Colombia. We cut overall funding by 10 
percent, or $59 million, and shift greater resources to the 
development, interdiction, rule of law and justice programs. It is time 
for the Colombians to take ownership over their eradication and 
military assistance programs, and this cut reflects that position.

The bill provides over $5.4 billion for Africa, including a total of 
$949.3 million for Sudan, $210.5 million of which is for Darfur, $104 
million above the request. We have provided $100 million in increased 
funding for the African Union Force in Darfur.

This bill allows us to fully meet the President's request for Israel 
and Egypt. And I want to make it clear that Egypt is a friend, an 
important ally in the war on terror and a partner for peace in the 
Middle East. However, there are growing concerns about the independence 
of its judiciary, police abuses, and the smuggling operation from Egypt 
into Gaza. As a result, this bill requires the Secretary of State to 
certify that steps are being taken to address these issues before a 
portion of the military aid to Egypt can be released.

Lastly, as you know, U.S. Government assistance for family planning 
is prohibited for groups that provide, promote, refer or counsel on 
abortions. Groups that merely exercise their legal rights to advocate 
for policies such as the legalization of abortion are denied U.S. 
assistance. This bill provides an exemption to those restrictions 
simply for the provision of contraceptive commodities. Foreign family 
planning organizations, which have been denied USAID family planning 
funds, could receive contraceptives from USAID to help reduce 
unintended and high-risk pregnancies, abortions and the spread of HIV, 
as well as save the lives of mothers and infants.

This provision does not amend any of the provisions in existing law 
that prohibit assistance for abortions or otherwise restrict family 
planning funds.


They're all there; 10 of them are all there; and 5 for restricting 
family planning; 10 to be sure that there's no money for abortion, and 
5 to restrict family planning. All there.

Mr. Chairman, this package of foreign assistance before you preserves 
our Nation's interests, reflects the values and priorities of the 
American people, and most importantly, helps to protect the security of 
Americans at home and abroad. It was developed in a bipartisan manner, 
and I expect it to have wide support as it passes the House.

In closing, let me say again that it has been a pleasure working with 
Ranking Member Wolf and the minority staff, Christine Kojac, Rob Blair, 
Mike Ringler, Alice Hogans and Molly Miller. I would like to thank my 
vice chair, Jesse Jackson, Jr. for his hard work on this bill. I 
greatly appreciate the outstanding work and support of Nisha Desai, 
Lucy Heenan, Craig Higgins, Steve Marchese, Michele Sumilas, Mark Lopes 
and Celia Alvarado. They're all competent, professional and really a 
joy to work with. The work we have accomplished together in this bill 
will help make America more secure and will improve the lives of 
millions throughout the world.

Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to submit this bill, and urge your 
favorable consideration.


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH20JN07.001




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH20JN07.002




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH20JN07.003




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH20JN07.004




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH20JN07.005




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH20JN07.006




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH20JN07.007





I reserve the balance of my time.

