---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `f0ff35444a4aa2aa1a4ab1ad35f135b8`
`Mr. DODD — 2 October 2008`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, I rise with great sadness and a heavy heart 
to remember a young man and a great American. Army 1LT Thomas Brown, a 
native of Shelton, CT, was killed in action in Iraq a few days ago--the 
41st citizen of my State to lose his life in the Iraq or Afghanistan 
wars. He was 26 years of age.

We honor the sacrifice of all our men and women who give their lives 
serving this country. But it is never easy to lose someone so young--
especially someone for whom life so clearly had much more in store.

As a teenager, Lieutenant Brown attended Notre Dame Catholic High 
School in Fairport, where it has been said he was all but inseparable 
from his twin brother, Timothy. He was an honor student and an athlete.

He would graduate from George Mason University in 2004, and like so 
many young people, he was eager to serve his country--to give something 
back. He attended Ranger school, Airborne school and officer candidate 
school.

This young man would go on to serve in the Army's 2nd Battalion, 6th 
Infantry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team of the 1st Armored Division. 
There, I understand, Lieutenant Brown earned great respect and 
admiration from his fellow soldiers.

Lieutenant Brown was known among his comrades as an officer who led 
by example, not by order, and was immensely proud to serve his country 
in the U.S. Army. He was also known for his passionate love of the 
Boston Red Sox, and for his truly generous spirit.

In recognition of his heroic service and sacrifice, Thomas Brown was 
posthumously awarded the Bronze Star Medal and the Purple Heart.

One of the saddest facts in this young soldier's passing is that he 
was due to take leave and return home in 3 short weeks to visit his 
friends, family and girlfriend. He wanted nothing more than the chance 
to visit home.

Timothy Brown said recently of his brother: ''He wanted to make a 
difference.''

Let the record show that 1LT Thomas J. Brown, in his 26 short years 
on this Earth, did make a difference--and that we are forever grateful 
for the remarkable contributions he made to the country he did so love.
