# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `f101dfa17839cca3f735ace80f5d304b`
`Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I rise, regrettably, today in 
opposition to the supplemental conference report before us, the first 
time I have risen in opposition to an appropriations conference report 
in more than 12 years. The Democratic side of the aisle and many of 
their liberal newspaper editors are intent on substituting their 
judgment for that of our professional, trained, experienced military 
leaders.

I am reminded of a quote that I want to read to you, it's very brief, 
that speaks to this subject. I will tell you the author in just a 
moment. ''It appears we have appointed our worst generals to command 
forces, and our most gifted and brilliant citizens to edit newspapers. 
In fact, I discovered by reading newspapers that these editor geniuses 
plainly saw all my strategic defects from the start, yet failed to 
inform me until it was too late. Accordingly, I am readily willing to 
yield my command to these obviously superior intellects, and I will, in 
turn, do my best for the cause by writing editorials after the fact.'' 
Signed, Robert E. Lee.

This Congress is made up of 535 lawyers, doctors and teachers, some 
with military experience, some without. It is not, however, made up of 
535 military commanders who possess the ability to manage a war against 
al Qaeda. Yet that is what this conference report does. It enables over 
just half of 535 politicians to micromanage the war in Iraq against al 
Qaeda.

Sadly, though, this is not the only reason to vote against this 
conference report. It's also full of billions of dollars in spending 
categorized as an emergency which undermines the true needs of our 
troops and gulf coast hurricane recovery efforts. Specifically for 
Homeland Security, the supplemental contains two categories of 
emergency funding, hurricane recovery and the global war on terrorism.

Speaking to the hurricane recovery portion, this is a true 2007 
emergency. FEMA needs these funds now to continue our commitment to the 
devastated gulf coast region and to ensure the disaster relief fund 
does not run dry in the middle of what experts are predicting will be 
an active hurricane season.

I can only hope that in an effort to keep the overall exorbitant 
spending of the bill down, the majority has not shortchanged the true 
needs of this account.

The global war on terrorism, part of this funding bill, is another 
story. While it contains many worthy and important items such as 
nuclear and explosive detection systems and additional aircraft for the 
northern border, things I have supported in the past and continue to 
support, they are in no way a 2007 emergency. In every instance, these 
items could and should be addressed in the regular 2008 appropriations 
bill. By including them in this 2007 emergency, the majority is simply 
trying to look strong on security and buy down requirements to free up 
funds in 2008 for additional spending.



While I support homeland security spending, I support it in a 
fiscally responsible way.

Mr. Speaker, it is not often that I have two such compelling reasons 
to vote against a bill: taking away authority to manage our war against 
al Qaeda from the military commanders, and carelessly adding billions 
of dollars in non-emergency spending. These are the very reasons we 
will be back here addressing these matters again in a couple of weeks 
after the President vetoes the bill.

We should address these issues now, and stop the political 
gamesmanship that harms both our troops and the gulf coast recovery 
effort. This bill is nothing short of a cut-and-run in the fight 
against al Qaeda. I urge a ''no'' vote.