---
---

# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `f11403e1820f2211ce68322adb7449ae`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, we had an opportunity within the 
first 100 hours to cut $14 billion from going to the oil companies. We 
supported it. Our friends on the other side of the aisle rejected that 
approach; they would rather take it out of security. So I think it is 
important we go back.

My friend from Tennessee said where do we slow the growth. Well, we 
tried to slow it from going to the oil companies and we tried to slow 
it from going to corporations who harbor themselves in these far-off 
distant lands to avoid paying taxes. Our friends choose to take it out 
of security.

Let's look at a couple more of these programs because sometimes the 
details hurt. Crimes Against Children, which is a program we have, the 
committee wanted to have an increase of 14 positions to provide a 
coordinated investigative, operational and intelligence effort to 
combat crimes against children and to address child abduction, 
predators who sexually assault children, and child prostitution. There 
will not be 14 positions to protect our children if this amendment 
passes.

How about this one, weapons of mass destruction directorate. Sounds 
like a pretty good idea post-9/11, and in a bipartisan way it passed 
out of committee. Here is what it will do. The committee wants to hire 
146 positions, 29 agents, 69 support personnel, to develop the 
essential baseline capabilities to build a dedicated weapons of mass 
destruction program designed to prevent, prepare for, and respond to 
the threat of weapons of mass destruction. If this amendment passes, we 
are going to have less agents trying to find folks who are in our 
country trying to unleash weapons of mass destruction.

How about the Data Intercept and Access program; 41 positions, 6 
agents, 35 support to provide the technical expertise, training and 
necessary equipment to execute lawfully authorized electronic 
surveillance of data network communications facilities trying to 
protect us. This bill has some essential components to it.

This committee went to great lengths to make sure that they would 
make the proper investments. This is very well thought out. I think we 
would be hard-pressed to find any American who would read this and say 
no, you know what, we should not hire that many agents. We should give 
that money to the oil companies. I don't think there are many Americans 
who would say that.

One more before I yield back. Render Safe Mission, the RSM program; 
nine positions, three agents, six support personnel to address the 
White House directive, the White House directive, giving the FBI the 
mission to respond to devices involving weapons of mass destruction 
within the United States and its territories. Within the United States. 
This is not about Iraq. This is not about Afghanistan. This is about 
funding nine positions in this one specific field, people who are 
experts to keep this country safe.

I think the more we get into these programs, the more ridiculous some 
of these amendments seem. The American people would not support a 0.5 
percent decrease in these programs, not a 1 percent decrease in these 
programs, not a 3 percent decrease in these programs. These are 
essential.

When you look at the money, Mr. Chairman, that has been wasted in 
Iraq on unbid, no-bid contracts, no oversight provided at all, when you 
look at the $14 billion we tried to get off the oil companies, that 
makes sense. Get that money. Don't get it on the backs of FBI agents 
who are going to be operating surveillance operations here in the 
United States.