---
---

# FRESHMEN DEMOCRATS PROMOTE ACCOUNTABILITY AND OVERSIGHT
## `f160961e43cc91a090604a4b8465a223`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I am Ron Klein, and I represent 
Florida's 22nd Congressional District in Congress, which is southeast 
Florida, Fort Lauderdale to West Palm Beach area, and I have the 
privilege of anchoring tonight's freshmen's Special Order. We decided 
as a group of freshman, and there was a large group of us that were 
elected this year, to meet on a regular basis and to discuss policy, 
those of us who had contested races, those of us who did not have 
contested races, but all of us new with this process coming in with a 
fresh perspective and the belief that hopefully we could influence the 
process in a way that would move things along, which is, I think, the 
loud message we heard from the people that elected all of us, both 
Democrats and Republicans this year.

Tonight our Special Order is going to focus on the importance of 
accountability and oversight within our Nation's government. There is 
no question that the ability to exercise accountability and oversight 
among the executive and legislative branches, that is our branch and 
the President's branch, is vital to making sure that our government is 
operating and governing within the highest ethical and moral standards, 
and makes sense. It is also important to make sure our government is 
doing the right thing for our people.

It seems that every time we are turning on the news lately or pick up 
the newspaper, there seems to be some story about where there is no 
accountability. And the oversight and lack of accountability seems to 
be the prime topic of conversation back home in our districts, in our 
offices, in our supermarkets, in our churches and synagogues. If you 
just think about the most recent one, the United States attorney 
scandal, where a number of U.S. attorneys were fired; and, of course, 
there is a question about for what purpose they were fired and whether 
there is a reason, and now there is a question of getting all the 
information out on the table.

The ongoing concerns over Valerie Plame and the outing of Valerie 
Plame. And, of course, I think most of us as Americans understand, when 
someone works for this country as a member of our intelligence 
services, we owe that person the highest degree of respect and 
integrity and make sure that their position is held confidential. And 
certainly anybody who is responsible for outing that person should be 
held accountable and punished.

Conditions at Walter Reed Hospital. And we are going to talk about 
that a little more tonight, and, unfortunately, other veterans 
hospitals. And I am happy to say that in my area and in many other 
parts of the country that there are some very good things going on in 
our veterans hospitals and our veterans outpatient clinics, but many 
times it is a matter of having the resources to have enough doctors in 
place. And I know I have heard from time to time about long waiting 
lines. But there are places like Walter Reed and other places that have 
now been identified where you had mold and you had ceilings falling in 
and lack of care, and people that were working there that were 
overworked and unfortunately not providing the type of treatment that 
should be awarded. The highest level of respect should be awarded to 
our men and women who are our heroes in this country.

And, of course, the no-bid government contracts being awarded to 
companies doing business in Iraq to the tune of billions of dollars of 
waste, and certainly not accomplishing the major goals. One of the 
goals we went in there with, of course, was to take out Saddam Hussein, 
but I think everybody understood very quickly that if we were going to 
be successful in changing the hearts and minds, that some of the 
rebuilding activities, getting electricity on, getting hospitals up, 
creating jobs, those kinds of things would be very, very important to 
making the people of Iraq feel that this was a worthy cause to set up 
their own government. Unfortunately, we have spent billions of our 
money over there, and, unfortunately, the condition is in many ways 
worse today than it was with the fall of Saddam Hussein.

The news on these subjects is everywhere. So tonight we are going to 
talk about accountability and oversight, and my colleagues who are 
going to join me tonight as freshman Members recently elected are going 
to be talking about how we are working to restore those features of 
accountability and oversight to Washington and our government.

A couple things I just want to touch on before I turn over to my 
colleague Congressman Hodes. On November 7, which was last year's 
election, we believe that the American people, I know we all heard this 
as we walked door to door and heard from the American people, they 
wanted change. It wasn't necessarily Democrat or Republican; they 
wanted people to come together, find common ground, and move forward. 
And fortunately for this country, this House has, in fact, started that 
process. There were six items very quickly that were passed in the 
beginning called the 100 Hours, the Six for '06, everything from fixing 
the Medicare prescription drug program, which I know many of our 
seniors are concerned about making it easier to use, less costly to the 
taxpayers; minimum wage, making the minimum wage higher, of course, is 
a key issue; lower student loan rates; and a number of other issues 
like energy policy. These are the things that we came to work on and 
that were done.

We also passed the lobbying reform bill and a full disclosure bill 
which has already significantly reduced the influence that lobbyists 
have on this legislative process. We need to do more, but we certainly 
took a lot of the right steps by not allowing lobbyists to take Members 
of Congress out to lunch. We had that in Florida, we changed that, and 
I am glad we changed that here, too.

And, of course, the earmark process. And for those of you who don't 
know what earmark is, that is this idea: In the past, Congressmen, 
Members of the Senate and House, would go behind closed doors and add 
millions and tens of millions of dollars, even hundreds of millions in 
some cases, of special projects in the dark of night to the budget 
without any consideration by all the Members of Congress. And that 
needs to change, and I am very happy to say that with new earmark 
reforms in place, that will change.

The way it is changing is very clear: Anything that is presented 
needs to be presented in the light of day. It needs to be publicly 
disclosed and laid out for the Members of the Congress so that a 
legitimate project in Alaska should be a legitimate project in Florida. 
Even though it may benefit one State, we all


represent this country, but it has got to be done the right way.

This week we passed important legislation which curbs waste in 
Federal contracting; strengthens protection for whistleblowers, and 
those are, of course, people that discover and come forward when there 
is waste and corruption in government; and also provides long overdue 
of the veterans health care crisis and other Federal issues. We are 
going to talk about accountability of tax dollars. We are going to talk 
about a number of other things.

I am joined by some colleagues here, and I would like to introduce 
them. We have got Congressman Ellison, who is going to join us and talk 
to us a minute; Congressman Hodes. Congressman Welch is going to join 
us for a few minutes.

You look like you are poised and ready to go, Congressman Hodes, so 
why don't you kick off and give us a little oversight on what you are 
going to talk about on oversight and accountability.