---
---

# COMMENDING JIM NICHOLSON
## `f179dda0ebfff430e765bbf9f12e091a`
`Mr. ALLARD — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, it is my distinct pleasure to recognize my 
friend and fellow Coloradan Jim Nicholson. Although it is with sadness 
that his resignation takes effect this week, I would like to take this 
time to commend him for his service as the Secretary of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs.

Jim is a veteran's veteran. As a West Point graduate, Army Ranger, 
highly decorated Vietnam war veteran, and 4 years of service as the 
ambassador to the Holy See, Jim was well prepared and highly qualified 
for the duties as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Jim was nominated 
by President Bush to serve as Secretary in December of 2004 and was 
subsequently confirmed unanimously by the Senate. The confidence 
bestowed upon Jim Nicholson by the President and all of those who 
gather here speaks to his unassailable ability to assist our veterans. 
Sworn into office on February 1, 2004, Jim readily assumed his role as 
the primary advocate for veterans.

Jim accepted control of the VA at an extremely difficult time and has 
proven himself to be the right man for the


job. He was asked to serve his country in a new capacity and brought 
with him a great sense of honor and duty. In this time of war, Jim has 
worked tirelessly to ensure that the VA meet the current needs of those 
veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Although there is great 
urgency in caring for our recently wounded service men and women, Jim 
has also understood the crucial need to continue to provide the utmost 
care for our veterans and warriors of past generations. Under his 
leadership, the VA has earned higher marks for medical services than 
the private health care industry for customer satisfaction, according 
to the American Customer Satisfaction Index, for the seventh 
consecutive year. He has helped to give all our veterans the care they 
deserve, as they have sacrificed so much for all of us.

I have personally worked with Jim for years. I would especially like 
to thank him for the instrumental role he played in reinvigorating the 
construction of a new VA hospital in Aurora on the Fitzsimons campus. 
Without his support, this project would not have progressed to the 
point it is at today. This hospital will prove to be a great asset for 
our veterans in Colorado, and Secretary Nicholson should be commended 
for his efforts.

As we celebrate the service of Secretary Nicholson, I had also like 
to take this opportunity to thank his family, notably his wife Suzanne, 
whose endless support is undoubtedly valued and is greatly appreciated. 
Jim Nicholson has served this country with honor and valor in many 
capacities. I will certainly miss Secretary Nicholson, and wish him and 
his family the best of luck in the future. I thank him for his 
exceptional service on behalf of all our veterans.
