---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `f17b19108f1a6cdad239869e8c304a9e`
`Mr. COCHRAN â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Madam President, there has been much debate and 
discussion about President Bush's plan for a new way forward in Iraq. 
In fact, there was much discussion between the President and his team 
of military and civilian advisers prior to his making the decision to 
change course and outline a new strategy to help bring stability to the 
country and to hasten the day when our troops could come home.

There is no easy answer and no easy solution to the situation in Iraq 
and the Middle East. The President's decision was informed by input 
from many sources, including his national security advisers, civilian 
and military, members of his Cabinet, his intelligence experts, as well 
as Members of Congress, foreign leaders, and others with foreign policy 
experience. In the end, it was the President who decided this new 
strategy and that this new strategy had the best chance of success.

He acknowledged, and we all know, there is no guarantee of success. 
But the dangers are too great to not try to create an opportunity to 
provide an increased level of stability in Iraq. A temporary deployment 
of additional U.S. troops in Iraq to support the Iraqi security forces 
will provide a new window of opportunity for Iraqi political and 
economic initiatives to take hold and reduce sectarian violence.

The President and his military and civilian advisers reviewed last 
year's


efforts and determined there were not enough troops to secure the 
cleared neighborhoods. They also determined that unnecessarily 
burdensome operational restrictions were placed on the military. The 
President and our military leaders have assured us that these mistakes 
will not be repeated.

Prime Minister Maliki has assured us that more Iraqi troops will be 
engaged in the fight and that political restrictions will be removed. 
In addition, the Prime Minister of Iraq has committed to take 
responsibility for security for all Iraq provinces by November, to work 
to pass legislation to share oil revenues equitably among Iraqi 
citizens, and to spend $10 billion of Iraqi reserve funds for 
reconstruction and initiatives that will create jobs. He will also work 
toward demobilizing militias, holding provincial elections, and 
reforming debaathification laws, which should help improve the civil 
structure so the Government can meet the needs of its people and help 
promote economic growth.

Last week the National Intelligence Estimate, entitled ''Prospects 
for Iraq's Stability: A Challenging Road Ahead,'' was delivered to 
Congress. I will not speak to the 90-page classified report. But there 
were some unclassified judgments provided to us that I can mention. 
Within this National Intelligence Estimate, this information is 
provided to support these conclusions:




 If strengthened Iraqi security forces, more loyal to the 


 government and supported by Coalition forces, are able to 


 reduce levels of violence and establish more effective 


 security for Iraq's population, Iraqi leaders could have an 


 opportunity to begin the process of political compromise 


 necessary for longer-term stability, political progress, and 


 economic recovery.



 Nevertheless, even if violence is diminished, given the 


 current winner-take-all attitude and sectarian animosities 


 infecting the political scene, Iraqi leaders will be hard 


 pressed to achieve sustained political reconciliation in the 


 timeframe of this Estimate.



 Coalition capabilities, including force levels, resources, 


 and operations, remain an essential stabilizing element in 


 Iraq. If Coalition forces were withdrawn rapidly during the 


 term of this Estimate, [that is 12 to 18 months] we judge 


 that this almost certainly would lead to a significant 


 increase in the scale and scope of sectarian conflict in 


 Iraq, intensify Sunni resistance to the Iraqi government, and 


 have adverse consequences for national reconciliation.



 If such a rapid withdrawal were to take place, we judge 


 that the ISF [Iraqi Security Forces] would be unlikely to 


 survive as a nonsectarian national institution: neighboring 


 countries--invited by Iraqi factions or unilaterally--might 


 intervene openly in the conflict; massive civilian casualties 


 and forced population displacement would be probable; AQI 


 [al-Qaida in Iraq] would attempt to use parts of the 


 country--particularly al-Anbar province--to plan increased 


 attacks in and outside of Iraq; and spiraling violence and 


 political disarray in Iraq, along with Kurdish moves to 


 control Kirkuk and strengthen autonomy, could prompt Turkey 


 to launch a military incursion.


Madam President, these statements remind me of prepared testimony 
presented by Dr. Henry Kissinger to the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee on January 31. He indicated that U.S. forces are 
indispensable and withdrawal would not only have dire consequences in 
Iraq but would also have a negative impact on the region. I will quote 
from Dr. Kissinger's testimony at that hearing in the Senate:




 The disenchantment of the American public with the burdens 


 it has borne largely alone for nearly four years has 


 generated growing demands for some type of unilateral 


 withdrawal, usually expressed as benchmarks to be put to the 


 Baghdad government that, if not fulfilled in specific 


 timeframes, would trigger American disengagement.



 But under present conditions, withdrawal is not an option. 


 American forces are indispensable. They are in Iraq not as a 


 favor to its government or as a reward for its conduct. They 


 are there as an expression of the American national interest 


 to prevent the Iranian combination of imperialism and 


 fundamentalist ideology from dominating a region on which the 


 energy supplies of the industrial democracies depend. An 


 abrupt American departure would greatly complicate efforts to 


 stem the terrorist tide far beyond Iraq; fragile governments 


 from Lebanon to the Persian Gulf would be tempted into 


 preemptive concessions. It might drive the sectarian conflict 


 in Iraq to genocidal dimensions beyond levels that impelled 


 U.S. intervention in the Balkans. Graduated withdrawal would 


 not ease these dangers until a different strategy was in 


 place and showed progress. For now, it would be treated 


 within Iraq and in the region as the forerunner of a total 


 withdrawal, and all parties would make their dispositions 


 on that basis.



 President Bush's decision should, therefore, not be debated 


 in terms of the ''stay the course'' strategy he has 


 repeatedly disavowed in recent days. Rather, it should be 


 seen as the first step toward a new grand strategy relating 


 power to diplomacy for the entire region, ideally on a 


 nonpartisan basis.



 The purpose of the new strategy should be to demonstrate 


 that the United States is determined to remain relevant to 


 the outcome in the region; to adjust American military 


 deployments and numbers to emerging realities; and to provide 


 the maneuvering room for a major diplomatic effort to 


 stabilize the Middle East. Of the current security threats in 


 Iraq--the intervention of outside countries, the presence of 


 al-Qaida fighters, an extraordinarily large criminal element, 


 the sectarian conflict--the United States has a national 


 interest in defeating the first two; it must not involve 


 itself in the sectarian conflict for any extended period, 


 much less let itself be used by one side for its sectarian 


 goals.


Madam President, it is clear to me from Dr. Kissinger's comments that 
it is truly in our national interest to support the President's new 
strategy to help provide a new opportunity for political and economic 
solutions in Iraq and for more effective diplomatic efforts in the 
Middle East region. Of course, we know there are no guarantees of 
success. But according to the National Intelligence Estimate, the 
perspective of one of our most experienced foreign policy experts, Dr. 
Kissinger, included maintaining the current course or withdrawal 
without additional stability in Iraq will be harmful to our national 
interests and to the entire region.

Over the last few weeks, there have been a number of hearings in 
which the situation in Iraq and the President's new plan have been 
debated. During the January 30, 2007, hearing before the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee on his nomination to be Deputy Secretary of State, 
Ambassador John Negroponte stated:




 . . . I believed, and still believe, that it is possible 


 for Iraq to make a successful transition to democracy. What I 


 would like to say is that my belief that success in Iraq 


 remains possible is based on my experience in dealing with 


 Iraq as U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. and Ambassador to Iraq, 


 and as Director of National Intelligence.


We know there are challenges in Iraq and in the region. And the 
President has developed a new strategy for dealing with the problem, 
which I applaud. This includes involving the Government in Iraq and the 
military forces and the police in Iraq in a more aggressive way. 
Together they have worked with our military and diplomatic leadership 
to come up with a new plan that, if it is not undermined by the 
Congress, has a chance of succeeding.

During the January 23 hearing before the Senate Armed Services 
Committee on the nomination of General David Petraeus to be Commander 
of the Multinational Forces-Iraq, General Petraeus said:




 I believe this plan can succeed if, in fact, all of those 


 enablers and all the rest of the assistance is, in fact, 


 provided.


He, also, indicated this:




 It will not be easy, but if we could get them to where they 


 are shouting instead of shooting, that would be a very 


 substantial improvement.


Madam President, it is obvious to me we need to do what we can to 
help stabilize this situation and bring our troops home. As a beginning 
point for this strategy, for it to work, we should show a commitment by 
our country to success. I support this new initiative, and I think we 
should give it a chance to work.

This does not mean we should not monitor the situation or that the 
plan should not be adjusted as new developments occur. But we need to 
move forward in hopes of stabilizing Iraq, stabilizing the region, and 
in hopes of bringing our troops home at an early date. The President 
deserves our support in this effort, and I intend to support him.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.