---
---

# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `f185876ee078a0068b7cfb49ece13095`
`Mr. KYL — 4 February 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. Well, Mr. President, I am sorry the Senator is confused, but 
let me continue on to make the point the Senator wanted to talk about, 
which is why we need to read the bill.

The bill was just handed to me by staff. I have not yet read it. It 
is 71 pages. Here it is. It starts out ''Strike all after the first 
word and insert the following.'' Well, if we are striking all after the 
first word, then I want to know what we are inserting. Now, the 
representation from Senators on the other side is that we have added $1 
billion in spending on LIHEAP. There is a representation that in the 
bill there is an increase in the amount of mortgages that can be 
refinanced, and it was represented that is the same as in the House 
package. If that is the case, that takes the amount--I believe it is 
over $700,000.

I don't know a lot of low-income Americans who have mortgages of over 
$700,000 or mortgages up to $700,000. But as I understand it, if that 
is what the House bill provides for, and if that has been added to this 
bill, then that is what that provision would be. And the majority 
leader said there were some other small changes. I am not exactly sure 
what they are. It may be as simple as Dick and Jane, as the Senator 
from California said, in which case, as I said, perhaps we can go to it 
tomorrow. But, again, I don't think that is what the majority leader 
wants to do because of the commitments he has made to Senators who 
would have to come back here for a vote on it.

What is at work here is not that we are holding up action on the 
stimulus bill. What is at work here is a desire to move forward with 
votes on the FISA bill, which we are not on. We all voted to go to the 
stimulus bill, including all the members of the Democratic majority. If 
Members of the Democratic majority want to go on the stimulus bill, 
then let us consider the stimulus bill. If now the request is we just 
got on this, but now we want to go back to the FISA package, I wonder 
what it is about collecting intelligence on terrorists that is somehow 
less important than the stimulus bill so we can have the Senators vote 
on that but we can't have them vote on the stimulus package. These are 
both big important issues.

I don't want to come down here and engage in this tit for tat. I 
frankly think the American people are tired of it. They see all this 
bickering and they wonder why we can't get business done, why we can't 
get to solving these critical problems.

The Senator from California has made an eloquent plea for why we need 
to get out of Iraq, but we hear language like ''breathtaking 
irresponsibility'' and ''never worked with a President that didn't have 
a clue''--meaning this President doesn't have a clue--''about how to 
end the Iraq war. An earlier speaker said: The President wants to spy 
in violation of the Constitution.

Now, look, you can disagree with the President, but he doesn't want 
to spy in violation of the Constitution. He wants to collect 
intelligence on our enemies consistent with the Constitution. We can 
have legitimate debate and disagreement about whether what


we have done is constitutional. Some people might say no; others would 
say it is constitutional. But I do know this: Six months ago this body 
overwhelmingly--there may have been only one negative vote, I am not 
positive of that, but overwhelmingly--in a bipartisan vote we agreed to 
allow the collection of foreign intelligence under a particular regime 
for doing that, and it is that method of collection we want to 
reauthorize and we want to continue.

It is not just two Senators who decided to get together to develop a 
bill. By a bipartisan vote of 13 to 2 the Intelligence Committee agreed 
on the reauthorization and the method by which we have been collecting 
intelligence on our enemies for the last 6 months. Now, if we have been 
doing it for the last 6 months, and the Intelligence Committee by this 
bipartisan majority said let's keep on doing that, virtually no other 
changes except in one area dealing with liability protection for the 
communications companies, then I don't think it is fair to say this has 
all been done unconstitutionally. That would mean the majority, almost 
all Democrats, agreed to allow intelligence collection that was 
unconstitutional. That certainly isn't what my colleagues intended, 
what I intended, or what anybody else in this body intended.

So let us not say the President wants to collect intelligence that is 
unconstitutional and that is what we have been doing under a Senate and 
House-passed bill for the last 6 months. That is the kind of 
irresponsible debate the American people, quite frankly, are tired of.

The basic question that is before us tonight is, Shall we pass a bill 
that the majority leader has laid down dealing with stimulating the 
economy? We all just voted--virtually all of us voted--to take up the 
stimulus bill. We had hoped we would actually have this 3 or 4 days 
ago, but now we have it, and the majority leader has the absolute right 
to substitute what he wants us to consider, and he has done that. This 
is his proposal. And we have received some assurances as to what is and 
what isn't in it. I think we trust, but we also want to verify. As I 
said, it is 71 pages, but it shouldn't take that long for us to figure 
out whether there are other things in here other than what has been 
represented to us. If in fact it turns out that is the case, that all 
we have done is add another $1 billion in spending on the LIHEAP 
program, we have increased the amount of mortgages that can be 
refinanced up to 700 some thousand dollars--I think that is the number; 
I will read it here to make sure--and then some other minor changes, 
whatever those are, then, again, I would be perfectly happy to take up 
this bill tomorrow.


If I wanted to score cheap political points, I would do the same 
thing some on the other side have talked about, which is to say: All 
right, I ask unanimous consent that we take this up and vote on it. But 
I know there are people out campaigning. I know the majority leader has 
given them assurances they wouldn't have to come back for a vote on it. 
I respect that. It is a perfectly reasonable request. We can be taking 
the time now not just to ensure what is in the bill but to debate the 
bill, so that when we do vote on it, presumably the next day, we would 
have had our complete debate. It is not a waste of the American 
people's time for the Senate to take 1 day to debate a bill this 
important.

We don't have to be disagreeable about this. We can assure ourselves 
of what is in it and we can take tomorrow to debate it. A lot of the 
candidates are gone--presumably we don't want to ask them to come back 
to vote on it--so then we can vote on it the following day, and then 
take up the FISA bill, which is equally important, if not more 
important in terms of foreign intelligence collection. We have, what, 
another week or 10 days to complete work on that, with plenty of time 
to do it.

I think we should take a step back, not play political games here 
with the dueling unanimous consent requests to do something that does 
nothing but embarrass the other side. Let us get to the business of the 
American people, let us get a stimulus package voted on, let us then 
turn to the FISA bill and get the amendments voted on and pass that to 
the President before we take the work period off that we will be taking 
off in, what, 12 days or so.