---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `f19e835525eededba57f0f52907fb427`
`Mr. LEVIN — 27 September 2008`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to support the House 
amendment to S. 3001, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009. This bill was voted out of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee by a unanimous vote back in April. Last week, the Senate 
passed the bill by a vote of 88-8.

Over the last week, we have worked around the clock to reconcile the 
Senate and House versions of the Defense authorization bill. The 
compromise version of the bill--the House amendment to S. 3001--has now 
been approved by the House by on overwhelming bipartisan vote of 392-
39.

The bill that we bring before the Senate today contains many 
provisions that will improve the quality of life for our men and women 
in uniform, give them the tools that they need to defend our nation, 
and provide critical reforms to improve the operations of the Pentagon.

First and foremost, the bill would provide critical support to our 
men and women in uniform. For example, it would increase military pay 
by 3.9 percent--a half a percent more than the President requested; 
provide continued authority for the payment of enlistment and 
reenlistment bonuses, accession and retention bonuses for service 
members with critical skills or assigned to high-priority units, and 
other special bonuses and incentives needed to reward our troops and 
ensure that we can recruit and retain the people that we need in our 
military; authorize funds for military family housing and military 
construction projects needed to ensure that our troops have the housing 
that they deserve and our military has the facilities it needs for the 
national defense; and protect members of the military, family members 
and retirees from any increase in TRICARE fees, premiums, deductibles 
and copays.

The bill would increase the end strength of the Army, the Marine 
Corps, and the Army National Guard, to help reduce the incredible 
stress on our troops. It would also establish and extend critical 
authorities needed by the Department of Defense in our current 
operations. For example, the bill would provide DOD the authority to 
use funds for quick-turnaround construction projects needed to support 
our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan; extend DOD's authority to provide 
''train and equip'' funds and ''stabilization and security assistance'' 
so essential to the well-being of our troops; provide $1.5 billion for 
the Commanders' Emergency Response Program, CERP, which commanders on 
the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan consider the highest priority for 
protecting U.S. forces; and provide funding for critical initiatives, 
including $2.2 billion for the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
Organization's, JIEDDO's, ongoing efforts to defeat the threat of 
improvised explosive device, IEDs.

At a time when thousands of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and 
marines are deployed around the world and our all-volunteer military is 
straining to meet the requirements of two ongoing conflicts while 
remaining prepared for other contingencies, these are steps that we 
simply must take. When our men and women in uniform are in harm's way, 
there is nothing more important.

The bill also includes a number of measures to ensure the proper 
stewardship of taxpayer dollars.

It would also ensure that the Iraqis use their own oil revenues 
rather than U.S. tax dollars to pay for large infrastructure projects 
and for the training and equipping of the Iraqi military. At the 
beginning of the Iraq war, then-Deputy Secretary of Defense Wolfowitz 
testified that Iraq would be able to ''finance its own reconstruction'' 
through oil revenues. That has not proven to be true. To date, the U.S. 
taxpayers have paid approximately $48 billion for stabilization and 
reconstruction activities in Iraq. While the Iraqi government has 
generated more than $100 billion in oil revenues since the war began, 
it has spent only a small fraction of that amount on its own 
reconstruction. The Iraqi government now has $80 billion at its 
disposal to fund large scale reconstruction projects. Under these 
circumstances, it is inexcusable for U.S. taxpayers to continue to foot 
the bill for projects that Iraqis are fully capable of funding 
themselves.


Other provisions of the bill would help improve the management of the 
Department of Defense and protect taxpayer dollars. For example, the 
bill would institute improved cost controls for the acquisition of 
major weapon systems; require program managers to incorporate energy 
efficiency requirements into the performance parameters for such 
systems; establish new ethics standards to prevent personal conflicts 
of interest by contractor employees who perform acquisition functions 
on behalf of the Department of Defense; and establish a new database of 
information regarding contractor integrity, ensuring that this 
information


is available to acquisition officials making key contracting decisions.

I am disappointed that procedural obstacles in the Senate precluded 
us from considering a package of more than a hundred amendments, which 
would have taken further steps to support our troops and improve the 
management of the Department of Defense. Where it was possible within 
the scope of the House and Senate bills, we tried to include eleme nts 
of these amendments. Unfortunately, many of these important amendments 
were beyond the scope of the two bills and will have to be deferred 
until next year.

I am also disappointed that we were unable to adopt provisions 
addressing the administration's excessive reliance on contractors to 
perform functions that should be performed by the uniformed military or 
by civilian federal employees. For example, both the Senate bill and 
the House bill included provisions that would have precluded the use of 
contractor employees to perform inherently governmental functions in an 
area of combat operations, or to conduct interrogations of detainees. 
Unfortunately, these provisions drew a veto threat, so we had to limit 
ourselves to a Sense of Congress expressing our views on the issue.

When this bill was under consideration in the Senate, we spent a 
great deal of time and effort discussing how best to provide public 
visibility for our funding decisions, including earmarks of funds 
authorized in the bill. Historically, our funding tables have been 
included in report language, rather than in bill language. In Executive 
Order 13457, the President stated his view that such funding decisions 
should be ''included in the text of the bills voted upon by the 
Congress and presented to the President.''

Unfortunately, the Government Printing Office informed us that 
incorporating our funding tables into bill language would have added 
three full days to the time required to prepare a bill for floor 
consideration in the Senate and the House--even if GPO did not have 
other high priority work to accomplish at the same time. This delay 
would have been in addition to the day and a half it would have 
required for the committee staff to prepare the funding tables in a 
form that could be processed by GPO, and to ensure the accuracy of 
GPO's work.

With only a few days left for the House and the Senate to consider 
the bill before the end of this year's session of Congress, we 
determined that placing the funding tables into bill language was not 
an option that was available to us. Instead, we have incorporated the 
tables into the bill by reference--an action that has the same legal 
effect. To ensure public visibility of all of the funding decisions in 
the tables, the tables have been posted on the websites of both the 
Senate Armed Services Committee and the House Armed Services Committee. 
This is in addition to the posting on these websites of separate 
transparency tables which--as required by the Rules of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives--provide information about each funding 
item requested by a Senator or a Member of Congress.

As of today, almost 200,000 U.S. soldiers, sailors, airmen, and 
marines are deployed far from home, in Iraq, Afghanistan, Kuwait and 
other theaters of operations around the world. After more than 6 years 
of war, our military, particularly our ground forces, are severely 
stressed. Too many of our troops are worn out, their families are tired 
of repeated deployments, and our equipment is being used up.

We need to enact this bill to improve the quality of life of our men 
and women in uniform. We need to enact this bill to give them the tools 
that they need to remain the most effective fighting force in the 
world. Most important of all, we need to enact this bill to send an 
important message that we, as a nation, stand behind them and 
appreciate their service.

At a time when our men and women in uniform are sacrificing so much 
for our country every day, it is surely not asking too much for our 
colleagues to agree to enact this bill so we can provide our troops the 
support that they need and deserve. I urge my colleagues to support the 
House amendment to S. 3001--the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009.