---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f1a5f7ee8fa97417fbebcc290a2668b5`
`Mr. DINGELL — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I wish I could rise in support for the 
administration's policy. I wish it made sense. I wish it was in the 
best interests of this country to support that policy.

It has been now 4 years since the first American soldier entered the 
deserts of Iraq, and about 4 years since the President has declared 
victory. Since then, more than 3,100 Americans have been killed, 24,000 
and more have been wounded, and anywhere between 40,000 and 100,000 
Iraqis have died.

You know, I am proud and grateful that I could have the privilege of 
serving my country and making some small offering to its success in 
time of war. I understand how important it is we support our troops 
there. They have done a magnificent job, and everyone in this Chamber, 
including this speaker, support them fully. It is regrettable, however, 
the leadership in Washington that has been less than stellar.

Unfortunately, the veracity of this administration and the respect in 
which it is held on these matters ranks somewhere around that great 
fantasist Baron Munchausen, the teller of fantastic tales.

I am against this plan, if it can be called such, because it is just 
more of the same policies and programs that have consistently failed 
for 4 years. I am against this surge because it will not make Americans 
safer, because it will put more American lives at risk, because it 
continues to neglect the battle in Afghanistan, and because it 
completely disregards the necessary diplomatic and political 
recommendations of the Iraqi Study Group.

Twenty-one thousand is too many to kill and too few to succeed. And, 
more importantly, that number is going to be sent over there away from 
the adventures that we are confronting in Afghanistan and the troubles 
that we are seeing in that place, and we are going to send people over 
there without adequate preparation, proper equipment, and training.

Vice President Cheney has told us that insurgency is in the last 
throes. Mr. Speaker, the national Intelligence estimates said that 
fanatical terrorism has now, and I quote, ''metastasized and spread 
across the globe.''

At each possible turning point, the toppling of Saddam Hussein's 
statue, the dissolving of the Army, the creation of the Iraqi 
Constitution, the vote for the constitution, the Parliamentary 
elections, the capture of Saddam, the death of Zarqawi, the Bush 
administration has told us that victory is at hand. And yet the killing 
goes on and seems to have risen to new levels and new evidence of risk.

I don't believe that we can any more condone this long train of 
failure which has brought us so little success and such tremendous 
sacrifice in blooded treasure. It is time that we recognize that our 
troops are in the middle of a civil insurrection or a civil war. It is 
time that we recognize that we must turn this situation now over to the 
Iraqis. The matter will be decided by the Iraqis, not by us. It will 
not be decided militarily, but rather politically, by the people in the 
area, and not by Americans who are coming increasingly to be viewed as 
intruders and to be less liked and less supported.

I know that commentators and defenders of the administration will 
assert that Iraq is too important, too vital to our national interests 
to be debated or criticized. I happen to think the debate in this body 
on matters of great importance is the reason that we exist, and it is 
time that we speak on behalf of the American people to tell this 
administration: ''Find a new mechanism to prevail in this matter. Find 
a new way to spend our lives and treasure. Find a new way to see to it 
that we prevail and that we make this country safe,'' because it is 
clear that this is not going to happen with the current policy as 
exemplified by this administration.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. I hope that the 
country will see to it that the President finally hears the message 
that his policies are failed, it is time to make changes, and that we 
have to do so in the interest of the United States and world peace