---
---

# JOB CREATION THROUGH ENTREPRENEURSHIP ACT OF 2009
## `f1ada2e0854b507643f99330ce9bcfa1`
`Mr. BOCCIERI — 20 May 2009`

---


Mr. BOCCIERI. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I yield myself as much time as I 
may consume.

Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of my amendment to H.R. 2352, the 
Job Creation Through Entrepreneurship Act. I want to thank Chairwoman 
Velazquez and Congressman Shuler for their vision in this landmark 
piece of legislation that will help restore our economy to what it has 
always been.

My amendment does two things, Mr. Chair. It allows veterans centers 
to receive grants to develop specialized programs that assist 
unemployed veterans, reservists and surviving spouses by becoming 
entrepreneurs. And it requires a Veterans Development Summit to provide 
training for veterans centers to improve their outreach to veterans in 
areas of high unemployment.

I strongly support the underlying bill and its creation of the 
Veterans Business Center program. By expanding assistance and training 
to veteran entrepreneurs, we can increase the number of successful 
small businesses and, thereby, create jobs, taking these highly 
skilled, highly trained individuals and helping them. Providing them 
with the opportunity to create jobs and create businesses is the right 
way to go.

The purpose of my amendment is to ensure that we are targeting 
outreach to unemployed veterans, reservists and surviving spouses.

Let's go over a few facts, Mr. Chair. While the economy continues to 
be tough for all Americans, it seems that young veterans are among the 
hardest hit. One out of nine Iraq and Afghanistan veterans are now out 
of work, and the total number of unemployed veterans of the two wars 
roughly averages about 170,000. It is about the same number as U.S. 
troops deployed to those wars, according to the Department of Labor. 
The 11.2 percent jobless rate for veterans who served in Iraq and 
Afghanistan rose 4 percentage points in the past year. That's 
significantly higher than the corresponding 8.8 percent for nonveterans 
in the same age group. On the battlefield, we pledge to leave no 
soldier behind. As a Nation, it should be our pledge that when they 
return home, we leave no veteran behind, and that includes making sure 
that every veteran has a job when they return.

I reserve the balance of my time, Mr. Chairman.