---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `f1bccd44b027f73aae6d492f6fe28942`
`Mr. AKAKA — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I am pleased to reintroduce the National 
Foreign Language Coordination Act with my colleagues Senators Thad 
Cochran, Christopher Dodd, and Russell Feingold. We are joined by


Representative Brian Baird, who is offering a companion bill in the 
House of Representatives today as well.

The legislation we introduce today would implement a key 
recommendation of the 2004 Department of Defense, DOD, National 
Language Conference to establish a National Foreign Language 
Coordination Council, chaired by a National Language Director. An 
integrated foreign language strategy and sustained leadership within 
the Federal Government is needed to address the lack of foreign 
language proficient speakers in government and in business. Without 
such a coordinated strategy, I fear that the country's national and 
economic security will be at greater risk.

The communications failures of 9/11 clearly demonstrate that we can 
no longer ignore the consequence of our citizens being unable to 
converse fluently in languages other than English. The fact that only 
9.3 percent of all Americans speak both their native languages and 
another language fluently, compared with 56 percent of people in the 
European Union is troubling. The Iraq Study Group reported last month 
that of the 1,000 American embassy employees in Baghdad, only 33 speak 
Arabic, and just 6 of them are fluent in this critical language. The 
shortfall of skilled linguists prompted the Iraq Study Group to 
recommend that ''The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and 
the Director of National Intelligence should accord the highest 
possible priority to professional language proficiency and cultural 
training, in general and specifically for U.S. officers and personnel 
about to be assigned to Iraq.''

The Federal Government has an essential role to play by collaborating 
with educators, State and local governments, foreign language 
associations, and the private sector to increase the number of 
Americans who speak and understand foreign languages. A National 
Foreign Language Coordination Council brings these diverse interests 
together to shape a much needed, comprehensive approach. Just as I have 
advocated the need for deputy secretaries for management at the 
Departments of Defense and Homeland Security to direct and sustain 
management leadership, I envision a National Language Director to be 
responsible for maintaining and leading a cooperative effort to 
strengthen our foreign language capabilities.

Our Nation's security is at risk without a sufficient number of 
foreign language proficient individuals. Counterterrorism intelligence 
will go untranslated and opportunities will be missed. Equally 
important is preserving the economic competitiveness of the United 
States. Globalization means that Americans must compete for jobs in a 
marketplace no longer confined to the boundaries of the United States. 
In short, both the security and economic vitality of the United States 
are tied to improving foreign language education. However, according to 
the Committee on Economic Development, many of our schools do not have 
foreign language programs that address the educational challenges of 
the 21st century. Many American students lack sufficient knowledge of 
other countries, languages, and cultures to compete effectively in the 
global marketplace.


Specifically, our bill ensures that the key recommendations of the 
DOD National Language Conference will be implemented by: Developing 
policies and programs that build the Nation's language and cultural 
understanding capability; engaging Federal, State, and local agencies 
and the private sector in solutions; developing language and cultural 
competency across public and private sectors; developing language 
skills in a wide range of critical languages; strengthening our 
education system, programs, and tools in foreign languages and 
cultures; and integrating language training into career fields and 
increase the number of language professionals.

Last week, the Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, 
the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia, which I chair, 
held a hearing on the Federal Government's language strategy. Dr. Diane 
Birckbich1er, director of the Foreign Language Center and chair of the 
Departments of French and Italian at Ohio State University, testified 
that ''if there is a national language strategy, it isn't very well 
known.'' She further recommended the development of a national language 
policy to create a language-ready workforce for the future.

To strengthen the role of the United States in the world, our country 
must ensure that there is a sufficient number of individuals who are 
proficient in languages other than their native languages. Increasing 
foreign language skills enhances national security, just as increasing 
foreign language skills enhances the ability of Americans to compete on 
a more global playing field.

I ask my colleagues to support this legislation and unanimous consent 
that the text of the bill be printed in the Record.