---
---

# EFFECTS OF TROOP DEPLOYMENTS
## `f1bd8fdb9b87f3eedcc98cd4a6945129`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I appreciate the gentlewoman's kind remarks and yielding 
me the time. And I appreciate my colleagues who have been here allowing 
me the opportunity to speak because I do have to take the chair. And I 
want to thank the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Braley) for his patience 
while he waits for me to step up to the plate.

I really think it's important for us to consider the work that this 
Congress has done on these issues. And we've spent a lot of time 
tonight talking about the problem; and that's very important. But it's 
important that our colleagues and the American people understand what 
we've done about it. We're not just in a position where we're going to 
talk about what's wrong. And we know the issues.

There's 700,000 children in America where the head of the household 
has been deployed. 700,000 children that are missing a parent right now 
because they're deployed overseas. 19,000 children have had a parent 
wounded in action. 22,000 have lost a parent in Iraq or Afghanistan.

And we have 40 percent of active duty servicemen and women that are 
married. So, Mr. Space talked about the effect of the spouse, certainly 
in the tragic extreme, but even when they're deployed and all of the 
circumstances that arise.

And just today, the American Psychiatric Association released a study 
focused on the mental health effects of deployments on servicemembers 
and their family. And that study, again, by the American Psychiatric 
Association, said that over 30 percent of military family members 
admitted to being very stressed because of the deployment.

Five years into the war in Iraq, one out of five, 20 percent of those 
family members surveyed, did not realize that they had the ability to 
access mental health care treatment to help them with that stress.

And I know we've talked tonight, and it's well documented, the 
increase in spousal abuse that takes place upon the return from active 
duty service.

So what has this Congress done? And there are many examples we can 
give. The largest increase in the 77-year history of VA. We've talked 
many times.

I wanted to talk about one specific amendment that took place which I 
offered to the Defense Authorization Bill that dealt with family and 
medical


leave, and extending the current Family and Medical Leave Act to cover 
the family members of military, Guard and Reserve members who were 
deployed, because we obviously need to allow time to work with families 
in those post-deployment briefings that often take place during the 
work day. They can't get time off work when they're gathering with 
their peers from the region to learn what's happening overseas and what 
the updates are for what's available to them. They should be able to 
take that time for family medical leave.

Household expenses, getting their financial house in order, dealing 
with child care issues, all of these are things that are now covered 
under family medical leave because of the actions of this Congress. 
This has been signed into law.

Importantly, when the serviceman or woman is injured overseas, you 
can take Family and Medical Leave Act time to care for the injured 
serviceman or woman. That's incredibly important. That's going to 
fundamentally change people's lives, and that's something that this 
Congress did.

But most to the point of what we're talking about with this study 
from the American Psychiatric Association and other evidence that 
exists, we allow family members to take Family and Medical Leave Act 
time to re-assimilate, as a family, after the serviceman or woman 
returns from their deployment so they can get to know each other again, 
spend time with their spouse, spend time with their kids. That is 
incredibly important. That is a huge achievement of this Congress, and 
that's something that I'm very proud of, that this Congress has done. 
That's been signed into law, and it is going to have a major impact on 
the lives of our brave servicemen and women who are fighting for this 
country.

So I just wanted to tell that story before I took the chair. And 
again, I would thank Mr. Braley, and I would yield back to the 
gentlewoman from Florida.