---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `f1cd95d672ca7377d4c2eb5dc1495743`
`Mr. LEE of New York — 28 July 2009`

---


Mr. LEE of New York. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican 
Leadership standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following 
information regarding earmarks I received as part of the FY Defense 
Appropriations bill.

Requesting Member: Congressman Christopher Lee (NY-26)

Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Other Procurement, Air Force--028 Combat Training Ranges

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Northrop Grumman Amherst Systems

Address of Requesting Entity: 1740 Wehrle Drive, Buffalo, NY 14221

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $1,000,000 for the Air 
National Guard


(ANG) Joint Threat Emitter (JTE) Savannah Combat Readiness Training 
Centers (CRTC)

The Joint Threat Emitter (JTE) system simulates electronic combat 
signals and is designed to provide realistic electronic warfare 
training for pilots and aircrew members. The Joint Threat Emitter will 
replace several older, harder-to-sustain and cost prohibitive threat 
emitters, and is specifically designed to allow for spiral development 
upgrades to ensure future threats are quickly integrated into its 
design.

The JTE has the capability to generate six modern threats from one 
platform and replaces more expensive, single-threat-per-platform units, 
which are more costly to support and do not have the flexibility to 
generate modern combat environments. The JTE capabilities, including 
the highly lethal double digital threats, add an essential element to 
ANG combat training ranges. The Savannah CRTC and Townsend Range 
Complex currently provides inadequate pilot training for real-world 
missions and pilots must train far from their home bases, which is more 
expensive and requires considerable transit time thereby reducing the 
time allocated for actual training. Modernization efforts are underway; 
however FY10 JTE funding is inadequate to procure the stated need of 
two (2) JTE systems at the Townsend Range Complex.

Requesting Member: Congressman Christopher Lee (NY-26)

Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Other Procurement, Navy--038 Submarine Acoustic Warfare 
System

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Hydroacoustics, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 999 Lehigh Station Road, Henrietta, NY 
14467

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $2,000,000 for the 
Hydroacoustic Low Frequency (HLF) Sources for Trident and Virginia 
Class Submarines.

This project will accelerate deployment of acoustic signature 
protection to Trident and Virginia class submarines operating in the 
Atlantic. Additionally, it will help maintain the industrial capacity 
to design and build low frequency acoustic sources since HAI is the 
sole manufacturer of HLF systems in the United States. This project 
will fill a critical funding gap while the Navy programs funds to 
sustain HLF-1 procurement.

Requesting Member: Congressman Christopher Lee (NY-26)

Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Procurement, Marine Corps--010 Modification Kits

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Carleton Technologies, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 10 Cobham Drive, Orchard Park, NY 14127

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $1,000,000 for the 
Microclimate Cooling Unit (MCU) for M1 Abrams Tank.

The M1 Abrams tank was designed to combat the former Soviet Union on 
the fields of Europe and as such it does not have an air conditioning 
system. With the War on Terror taking place not in Europe, but in the 
extreme climate of the Middle East, tank crews have had to not only 
combat the enemy, but also the effects of thermal stress and heat 
stroke. Ambient temperatures of 125 degrees Fahrenheit can yield 
temperatures inside the tank approaching 150 degrees Fahrenheit

A vehicle-mounted air conditioning system has had minimal impact 
because body armor and other field gear the soldiers are wearing 
prevent the body from being cooled. Likewise, any benefits of an air 
conditioning system are lost when the tank operates with its hatches 
open and crew exposed, as is most often the case in Iraq. The M1A1 
version of the tank has no crew cooling system currently outfitted.

Use of the MCU will significantly reduce soldier thermal heat stress, 
greatly improve soldier alertness and performance, and reduce resultant 
soldier injuries and casualties. Currently soldiers have no way to cool 
core body temperatures in the heat of Afghanistan and Iraq operations. 
Some soldiers have resorted to using IV fluids in an attempt to cool 
core body temperatures. Use of the MCU will significantly reduce 
soldier thermal heat stress, greatly improve soldier alertness and 
performance, and reduce resultant soldier injuries and casualties. An 
Army medical study has demonstrated a soldier work time increase on 
helicopters from approx 1.0 hours without cooling to in excess of 5 
hours with MCU. Similar results are found on tactical and combat 
vehicles.

Requesting Member: Congressman Christopher Lee (NY-26)

Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army--30 
0603002A Medical Advanced Technology

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Roswell Park Cancer Institute

Address of Requesting Entity: Elm & Carlton Streets, Buffalo, NY 
14263

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $2,500,000 for the 
Advanced Cancer Genome Institute at Roswell Park Cancer Institute

Roswell Park Cancer Institute is seeking to develop an Advanced 
Cancer Genome Institute: a world-class program for the early detection, 
prognosis and treatment of cancer and other diseases through the 
establishment and use of cutting-edge genomics instruments and 
techniques that identify new cancer-related genes and that develop new 
anti-cancer drugs. Through an affiliation with the National Functional 
Genomics Consortium (NFGC), which fosters high-level collaborations in 
cancer genomics and proteomics, the research will benefit cancer 
sufferers throughout the U.S.

The advanced genomics program at Roswell Park can provide expertise 
and training in the use of genomics and rapid drug development 
technologies for investigators from the Department of Defense and other 
government agencies focused on emergency health threats. In the event 
of emergency health threats such as pandemic or a bioterrorism attack 
the facilities can be adapted rapidly to help identify pathogenic 
agents and to develop therapeutic agents. The techniques developed by 
researchers to identify a gene signature and personalized treatment 
will be useful in addressing health threats which affect our troops and 
the public at large.

Requesting Member: Congressman Christopher Lee (NY-26)

Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Defense Health Program--02 RDT&E Defense Health Program

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Daemen College

Address of Requesting Entity: 4380 Main Street, Amherst, NY 14226

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $1,000,000 for Advanced 
Military Wound Healing Research and Treatment.

Applied research into acute and chronic wounds that will: Optimize 
wound recovery and outcomes; Develop an assay to predict wound healing; 
Develop an assay to predict scar formation; Integrate the new 
technology (assay) into treatment strategies; Develop composite wound 
applications to enhance wound closure.

Improving the healing of patients with acute and chronic wounds will 
decrease depression, increase function and independence, save limbs, 
and ultimately save lives. The new technologies we aim to develop can 
be readily adapted into military medical situations, would be suitable 
for military deployment in a military setting, and efficacious for use 
in civilian hospitals or other healthcare settings.

Requesting Member: Congressman Christopher Lee (NY-26)

Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force--2 
0601103F University Research Initiatives

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University at Buffalo

Address of Requesting Entity: 501 Capen Hall, Buffalo, NY 14260

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $1,000,000 for the UB 
Energy and Sensor Informatics Research and Translation Facility.

Increase research that will focus on energy informatics. This effort 
will include energy collection and storage research, nanostructured 
sensor materials and devices, and informatics associated with efficient 
and accurate use of the developed technologies. The acquired 
instruments will be applicable to: (i) chemical and biological sensors 
for health informatics, (ii) biometrics devices for identification and 
homeland security, (iii) semiconductor-based photovoltaic devices 
(solar cells) for energy collection, (iv) nanostructured energy storage 
devices (batteries), and (v) thermoelectric energy collectors. The 
facility will enable the development of new devices for homeland 
security, information technology, and health sciences.

Requesting Member: Congressman Christopher Lee (NY-26)

Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force--34 
0603260F Intelligence Advanced Development

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Janya Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 1408 Sweet Home Road, Amherst, NY 14228

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $1,000,000 for the 
Multilingual Text Mining Platform for Intelligence Analysts.

Extending the capabilities of Semantex, a text mining platform, to 
languages of great interest to DoD customers (Arabic, Urdu and Farsi). 
Semantex is a software platform for extracting useful information from 
unstructured text, such as open source news, email, social media 
(blogs, chat etc.) as well as message traffic.

The developed platform will support DoD intelligence applications 
where the current technology is insufficient, providing valuable 
multilingual multi-source intelligence to analysts and front-line 
warfighters in both tactical and strategic situations, increasing their 
effective bandwidth when processing intelligence information.

Requesting Member: Congressman Christopher Lee (NY-26)



Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide--40 
OSD 0603711D8Z Joint Robotics Program/Autonomous Systems

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Lithos Robotics Corporation

Address of Requesting Entity: 4246 Ridge Lea Road, Suite 61, Amherst, 
NY 14226

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $1,000,000 for 
Autonomous Control and Video Sensing for Robots.

Integrate digital radio and autonomous vehicle control system with 
proven Video Motion Detection for continuous visual sensing to provide 
surveillance and response via access to denied areas in a variety of 
complex situations, including EOD, expeditionary force protection in 
battlefields and highly flexible SOCOM needs. The system will be rugged 
and easy to use so it can be sent into chaotic zones to conduct 
surveillance, ID threats, and possibly manipulate devices for threat 
reduction in manual, semi-autonomous, and fully autonomous modes.

The project will result in a persistent surveillance module 
integrated with a digital radio system, and with a control system for 
unmanned ground robots. The system can be used by DoD for: 1. 
Standalone surveillance, force protection, and EOD; 2. Mobile, 
autonomous or semi-autonomous surveillance and/or force protection, and 
EOD

Requesting Member: Congressman Christopher Lee (NY-26)

Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy--50 
0603609N Conventional Munitions

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Veritay Technology, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4845 Millersport Highway, PO Box 305, 
East Amherst, NY 14051

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $1,000,000 for Improved 
Kinetic Energy Cargo Round (I-KEET).

The Improved KEET (kinetic energy, electronically timed) round 
project--initially funded through a Navy SBIR award and then enhanced 
by a Commercialization Pilot Program grant--accelerates development of 
a kinetic energy round and provides a non-explosive, lethal mechanism 
for projectiles. By using the internal propulsion mechanism found in 
the round to augment the kinetic energy imparted to the projectile by 
the gun found aboard Arleigh Burke-class destroyers, I-KEET ejects an 
even larger payload mass (19 lbs vice 17 lbs) in the forward direction 
at +760 ft/sec relative to the projectile, thereby doubling the kinetic 
energy and increasing the overall payload kinetic energy by 130% 
compared to the current round which ejects the payload from the rear. 
An increased dispersion technique provides a uniform dispersion pattern 
which increases the lethal area 2.2 times greater than the existing MK 
182 round therefore the I-KEET round provides significantly improved 
surface ship defense against small, fast moving attack boats.

The USS Cole attack, hijackings of civilian ships by pirates and last 
year's incident where five armed Iranian patrol boats harassed three 
Navy warships in the Strait of Hormuz, point to the fact that a primary 
asymmetric challenge to surface combatants operating in a littoral 
environment are attacks by small, fast boats. These emerging littoral 
threats have refocused Navy priorities for providing global assured 
access and maritime dominance in shallow water and coastal areas. This, 
in turn, has led to requirements for technologies to counter the 
threat, including munitions that fit existing weapons delivery systems 
that provide greater lethality through payload and dispersion patterns 
as well as being safer to store and transport aboard ship.

I-KEET will (1) Provide greater lethality through payload and 
dispersion patterns than the current Mk-182 round; (2) Use kinetic 
energy--not high explosives--to deliver the payload thereby making the 
rounds considerably safer to store and transport; (3) Fit existing gun 
systems so no costly delivery system modifications are needed; and (4) 
Provide better protection against small, fast, hard to target and 
disable, swarm boat attacks.

Requesting Member: Congressman Christopher Lee (NY-26)

Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy--27 
0603216N Aviation Survivability

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Calspan Corporation

Address of Requesting Entity: 4455 Genesee Street, Buffalo, NY 14225

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $1,000,000 for Military 
Upset Recovery Training.

This program provides a critical training function; heretofore 
missing from military pilot training curricula. Data from other related 
research indicates that even military trained pilots, currently the 
best trained and most experienced in this regime of flight, are unable 
to consistently recover from loss of control events, an unanticipated, 
un-commanded aircraft maneuver that left unchecked leads to a out of 
control situation and potential accident without this type of 
specialized training. It is important to note that the current track 
systems (fighter/other) that both the Navy and Air Force have 
transitioned, streamlines the curriculum, condenses and focuses the 
flying training based on the type of aircraft the pilot will fly 
operationally, but reduces and eliminates much of the advanced handling 
and aerobatic maneuvers that all military pilots were required to be 
proficient in. Since the separate track system was implemented about 15 
years ago, the current generation of medium and large military aircraft 
pilots has not been trained in these scenarios.

Realistic training for the very dynamic and disorienting events that 
lead to loss of control accidents cannot be trained in currently 
fielded aircraft simulators because these devices do not reproduce the 
critical accelerations and disorienting motions of the actual events. 
Training done in high performance aerobatic jet training aircraft, 
while helpful, does not duplicate the skill sets needed to recover a 
large aircraft and, in some cases, may transfer the wrong impression 
possibly resulting in a negative transfer-of-training effect that has 
been shown in itself to be dangerous. Furthermore, current flight 
training regimes do not address the critical training element not only 
how to recover from an extreme condition but, how to do so with 
inoperative controls due to system failure or battle damage. This 
training is geared towards military pilots operating a wide variety of 
transport, utility, and patrol aircraft. An important aspect of the 
upset maneuvers used in training is applicability beyond the specific 
events trained. The broader purpose of this training activity is to 
teach pilots how to evaluate a never-before-seen situation and maneuver 
a large transport airplane back to a safe and stable condition. In the 
end, the goal is to combine expanded situational awareness, knowledge, 
and judgment with the requisite stick and rudder skill-sets to 
successfully master the many flying challenges faced over a career of 
military operational flying.

Continuation of this development effort with operational testing and 
further analysis of an In-Flight Simulation based training program will 
support advance of training critical piloting skills in the regime of 
upset recovery. The initial funding has allowed the In-Flight Simulator 
will be programmed to exhibit representative characteristics to include 
relatively heavy control forces and sluggish response so as to 
illustrate the inherent difficulty in recovering from Jet Upsets in 
this class of aircraft and to conduct initial evaluations to measure 
pilot performance and recovery quality. Follow on funding will be used 
to conduct further development and testing to ensure a program will be 
effective when implemented into primary test and training regimes.

Requesting Member: Congressman Christopher Lee (NY-26)

Bill Number: H.R. 3326

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy--15 
0603114N Power Projection Advanced Technology

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Moog, Inc.

Address of Requseting Entity: Seneca and Jamison Roads, East Aurora, 
NY 14052

Description of Request: Provide an earmark of $2,000,000 for the 
Quiet Drive Advanced Rotary Actuator.

Moog will develop an advanced actuation system, a quiet, compact 
electro-mechanical device, using a hypocycloidic gear train that would 
be an enabling technology for the U.S. Navy, Future Naval Capabilities 
(FNC) These actuators will provide the Navy with a performance 
improvement and lifecycle cost advantage compared to today's hydraulic 
rotary actuator in its efforts to develop the all-electric ship and 
submarines. These systems will automate many systems, thus keeping 
sailors out of harm's way. The immediate naval application will be used 
on submarines (such as bow planes and other structures employing 
actuator technology). Actuators convert energy from hydraulic, air, or 
electric power to achieve mechanical movement and control of heavy or 
remote devices. Current Navy ships have between 100 to 3,000 actuators 
each. At present, these actuators typically use old style hydraulic 
technology. Successful completion of the technology will reduce 
shipboard personnel and reduce repair and maintenance costs. The 
Department of the Navy has repeatedly stated its desire for an all 
electric ship. Environmental hazards associated with hydraulic systems 
will also be eliminated by moving to an electric actuator. Under prior 
funding, there has been constructed an electric motor which is 
currently being evaluated. The present design does not meet the strict 
acoustic requirements of the U.S. Navy. The company, using internal 
funding, will analyze the prototype, correcting these and other 
technical issues. Computer models are now being constructed to aid in 
the analysis and physical


models will be built to verify the analytical conclusions. Alternate 
design concepts will be developed and analyzed with the best proposed 
as the system solution.

The military service need is well documented. In the 2007 Symposium 
conducted by American Society Naval Engineers/Department of Defense, 
the Office of Naval Research conducted a panel presentation on the need 
for the quiet drive technology as applied to Diagnostics and 
Maintenance in the all electric ship. Over the past 5 years, ONR has 
repeatedly stated that these actuators would provide the Navy with a 
performance improvement and lifecycle cost advantage compared to 
today's hydraulic rotary actuator in its efforts to develop the all-
electric ship. Army's TARDEC also supports the work because the results 
will be able to be used for Advanced Electric Drives configurable to 
axle and wheel-end applications providing greater drive capabilities 
and high intelligence capabilities (current immediate use includes 
HUMVEEs and trucks). Existing military axle and wheel-end systems fail 
to provide adequate measurement and date retrieval that are needed to 
increase engine efficiency and torque while preventing breakdown or 
catastrophic event.
