---
---

# COMMEMORATING THE SOUTH RIVER RURITAN CLUB
## `f1d375c660d398613165118043f93046`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 5 March 2007`

---

 Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I offer my congratulations to the 
South River Ruritan Club in Edgewater, MD, on their 50th anniversary.

The South River Ruritan Club, a community service organization, was 
chartered on March 13, 1957, and for 50 years has been providing much 
needed services to the citizens of Edgewater, Annapolis, and southern 
Maryland.

The Club, whose members are all volunteers, have contributed well in 
excess of half a million dollars in direct financial aid and countless 
hours of time, to numerous community service projects.

The club awards local students scholastic and vocational scholarships 
and provides assistance to local Scout troops, youth athletics, and 
other youth-related programs. They conduct an annual essay contest for 
fifth grade students and have sponsored students to the National 
Association of Student Council Conference and Exchange Student 
programs.

They contribute annually to the local fire and rescue departments, 
the Maryland and Anne Arundel County police departments, and support 
environmental programs, including efforts to protect the Chesapeake 
Bay.

Our Active Duty military, retired and disabled military, and veterans 
organizations also benefit from the volunteer efforts of the club. They 
have sent direct aid to our troops in Iraq and provide additional 
financial assistance through their military's morale and welfare 
assistance programs.

Their work also includes assistance in such areas as financial aid to 
needy families, victims of violent crimes, families displaced by 
catastrophes such as fires, and hurricanes, and assistance through 
Habitat for Humanity. They contribute annually to St. Jude Children's 
Research Hospital and Johns Hopkins Hospital Children's Center and they 
loan wheelchairs, walkers, and other medical assistance equipment to 
members of the community.

I congratulate the South River Ruritan Club on their wonderful record 
of community service over the last 50 years and wish them enormous 
success as they continue their commitment to improving their 
communities and supporting the families who live in and around them. 
This club and their membership, both past and present, have every 
reason to be proud of what they have accomplished.
