# None
## `f1d67de49d25252e3abcd1be2229942b`
`Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California â€” 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 5036, the Emergency 
Assistance for Secure Elections Act 2008, is a bill that provides State 
and local governments the opportunity to have safe, secure and 
auditable elections in this, the election, year.

I commend Congressman Holt and his bipartisan cosponsors for their 
continued dedication to the issue of election reform.

This bill recognizes that 2008 is quickly approaching and options 
must be provided to ensure the integrity of the vote. Our election 
process must be open and transparent to ensure public confidence. We 
are now 8 months from the general election and cannot place State and 
local governments in a position to require change. Therefore, the bill 
is 100 percent optional.

State and local governments can choose which provisions they can 
successfully implement. Opting in entitles the State or jurisdiction to 
reimbursement. In committee, several changes were made to this bill 
through bipartisan cooperation, and I want to thank Mr. Ehlers for his 
support during the committee markup. Changes were also made to meet the 
concerns of disability groups, as well as State and local government.

H.R. 5036, as amended, reimburses jurisdictions for retrofitting 
paperless touch-screen voting machines, or DREs, with systems that 
produce a voter verifiable paper record, allows for reimbursements for 
jurisdictions to obtain backup paper ballots in the event of failure of 
electronic voting systems and authorizes reimbursement for 
jurisdictions which conduct a manual audit of a Federal and any State 
and local election in November, 2008, in no less than 2 percent of the 
precincts.

During the markup, all the amendments offered by the Republicans were 
accepted by voice vote, and those four amendments were to allow for 
audits to commence within 48 hours after States or relevant 
jurisdictions involved announced the unofficial vote count. It requires 
no hand count to commence until at least 8 hours after the polls close 
and requires the ballots to be in a secured location until the hand 
count commences, and ensures that the hand-counting teams, when 
conducting a hand count of the election results, have equal 
representation from both political parties of the candidates who 
received the two greatest numbers of aggregate votes cast, and requires 
that after the hand count is complete the ballots be run through a 
tabulating machine or scanner for verification of the tally, if such a 
machine or scanner is available.

Having a voter verified paper trail with an automatic routine audit 
will go a long way to increase voter confidence and deter fraud.

Post-election audits are an essential tool to increase voter 
confidence in the election process. While the bill authorizes such sums 
as necessary, the CBO has come back to us with a score of $685 million, 
about what we expected, and a sum that was in the original Holt bill.

The CBO score, however, anticipates the participation of everyone in 
this bill. I think it is highly unlikely that every jurisdiction will 
participate in every aspect of the bill, since they have the 
opportunity to do nothing or to pick and choose portions of the bill. 
It is clear that the actual score or total would be less.

I would note that we are spending over $10 billion a month in Iraq 
and that we have spent a total of $1.32 billion on democracy-building 
programs in Afghanistan and Iraq. The CBO figure is certainly less than 
that. It seems to me, if we can't protect our elections at home, 
really, how are we supposed to be a model of democracy without safe and 
secure and auditable elections.

The country could end up revisiting the contentious and mistrusted 
count


of 2000 and, even more recently, in the contested election of District 
13 where people could not verify votes through an actual written 
ballot.

The bill reported out of committee makes the changes requested by the 
minority to the legislation but keeps the core purpose of the bill, 
providing a voter verifiable paper and auditable paper trail.

If this bill is enacted promptly, jurisdiction should have adequate 
time to purchase and implement the voting system upgrades and the other 
provisions of this bill and provide voter confidence in the integrity 
of the 2008 election.

I urge all of my colleagues to support this option bill, this 
bipartisan effort.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.