---
---

# REAL ENERGY SOLUTIONS
## `f1d7631af4e38ba8d7d1d22ba76e0fb9`
`Mr. SHIMKUS — 20 June 2008`

---


Mr. SHIMKUS. It doesn't have to be. This is not a difficult process.

Now, since I signed the pledge, the question is how do we do this?

Well, we know how we do it. These red areas on this map is called the 
Outer Continental Shelf, OCS. You hear it talked about on this floor a 
lot. These areas, which is the West Coast, all the West Coast, all of 
the East Coast, and the eastern half of the Gulf of Mexico, are off 
limits, off limits. We can't research it, we can't investigate it, we 
definitely can't find and produce oil and gas. And we know there's 
billions of barrels of oil and trillions of cubic feet of natural gas, 
and we don't have access to it because of our policies in this, on 
this, in this building on an appropriation bill, not even an 
authorization bill.

And we're going to get a chance to get appropriation bills on the 
floor, and we're going to raise this issue when this bill comes to the 
floor, and we're going to challenge our friends on the other side to 
say, you know what? It's time. This is too much. We need to open up the 
OCS, the Outer Continental Shelf.

What's another solution?

Well, I live in the State of Illinois, and geologically, the State of 
Illinois is, if you go down far enough, it's a big, huge field of coal. 
It's called the Illinois Coal Basin. We have as much energy, BTU, 
British Thermal Units of energy as Saudi Arabia has of oil.

You hear my friends on the other side, they're worried about Iraq; 
they're worried about the Middle East; they're worried about our 
reliance on imported crude oil. You know, if we were in the OCS, if we 
were using our coal and turning it into liquid fuel, we wouldn't have 
to worry about the Middle East.

But since we are denied the opportunity to go into the Outer 
Continental Shelf, we have to have energy. It's their own policy that's 
forcing us to be involved in these international arenas. You know, I'd 
like to tell those folks, take a hike; we don't need you. And we have 
our own energy here.