---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `f1d977bb31c5e1cd848dd7e3f0411498`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 17 December 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I speak today about the need for urgent 
action on the Defense appropriations bill. I shouldn't have to speak 
about urgent action on the Defense appropriations bill because this is 
the one area that is so important to the country and on which we should 
always operate as quickly as we can. I urge my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle to stop their attempts to derail the health care bill 
and allow the Defense appropriations bill to move forward.

As always, I respect that my colleagues have different views. We have 
different views on all kinds of issues. We have all kinds of 
substantive differences. I am one of the people in this body who 
believe there are basic differences, and a lot of them are not 
political, they are about basic differences that separate us from being 
Democrats and Republicans. We can disagree on tactics and on 
principles, but I know my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
support our troops, and the support of our troops should never be a 
partisan issue.

This bill funds more than $100 billion for operations, maintenance 
requirements, and military personnel requirements for our armed action 
in Afghanistan and Iraq. It provides more than $23 billion for 
equipment critical for protecting the brave men and women in uniform--
and they are brave men and women and they deserve this. I know the 
other side of the aisle agrees with that. That is why we should move 
ahead on this bill. It funds more than $150 billion for the training of 
our troops, critical to our success. It is incumbent upon the Congress 
to ensure that our troops in Afghanistan, Iraq, and throughout the 
world have the resources they need to be safe, secure, and effective in 
the war zone.

This bill has been operated and worked on by both parties. It puts 
our troops first, with the necessary equipment and improved benefits 
for the military and their families. This isn't just about our troops; 
this is about the brave men and women who remain at home, the families 
who need the benefits--again, issues I know my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle agree with. They deserve our support and they deserve 
it now.

In addition to providing a 3.4-percent pay increase for our troops, 
it also improves military health care and research, including for the 
very important psychological health, which is especially important, 
given the startling


rates of post-traumatic stress disorder. Everybody knows we must train 
and equip our troops, our men and women going into battle, but it is 
equally important--and everyone agrees with this, too--it is equally 
important to care for the troops and their families after they return 
home. That is what this bill does.

This bill is necessary, as it demonstrates solidarity with the troops 
and gratitude for the sacrifices they make on our behalf. It is an 
investment in our military, in our security, and in our future. That is 
why our House colleagues overwhelmingly agreed to it yesterday by a 
vote of 395 to 34 and why we must end these partisan delays to move 
this bill forward.

It is critical we pass the bill, and there is no good reason why our 
troops and military families should have to wait--especially in this 
holiday season--while the other side of the aisle is playing politics.

I support conducting a real debate on Afghanistan with a host of 
other military issues, but the current debate is not about substance, 
it is about politics. Our troops should come first and they deserve 
better. We should pass this bill without delay to give the military and 
their families the funding they need to do their jobs and to protect 
our Nation.

Thank you. I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.