---
---

# None
## `f1ddf8856e01936ce0bfb944395964dc`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. Mr. Speaker, I did want to talk for just a moment about 
how important it is that veterans were taken care of in this continuing 
resolution.

I do want to commend Speaker Pelosi, Chairman Obey, and the rest of 
the Democratic leadership who did a great job of putting together what 
was a mess that was left to us.

As Mr. Ryan talked about, we had nine out of eleven appropriations 
bills to fund this Government that were left in our lap, and we had to 
deal with that, and we had some tough decisions to make. But under the 
leadership of Speaker Pelosi and Chairman Obey we did what needed to be 
done.

I made clear to the leadership, and they agreed, that we needed to 
make sure that nobody should stand in front of our veterans when it 
comes time to pass funding resolutions. We have people fighting for us 
in the field overseas right now. We have veterans coming back from Iraq 
and, of course, veterans of every age.

That need does not go away. That need does not stop. As the 
Congressional Budget Office has indicated, the cost of caring for those 
veterans goes up year after year; and we have an obligation and a duty 
as Members of Congress to make sure that the VA health care budget goes 
up enough to maintain the current level of services for every veteran 
that walks through the door. I want to commend Chairman Obey for taking 
care of that under this continuing resolution.

I also wanted to just take a walk down memory lane and let's take a 
look at what the Republican leadership did for veterans' health care 
over the past several years.

I have a chart here. It might be difficult for some to read.

January, 2003, the Bush administration cut veterans' health care for 
164,000 veterans; and that is just the start.

March, 2003, 2 months later, the Republican budget that passed this 
Congress cut $14 billion from veterans' health care.

March, 2004, 1 year later, the Republican budget shortchanged 
veterans' health care by an additional $1/1/2/ billion.

March, 2005, the following year, President Bush's budget shortchanged 
veterans' health care by another $2 billion and cut veterans' benefits 
by $14 billion over 5 years. That is what we were left with.

Now, in the summer of 2005, after they had been warned when they 
passed that budget back in 2004 and after enormous pressure from the 
Democrats and from people around this country and especially from 
veterans' organizations, the Bush administration finally did 
acknowledge that they shortchanged the veterans; and they added back 
$2.7 billion after months of Democratic pressure to put that money back 
in.

But then only a few months later, in March, 2006, President Bush's 
budget cut veterans' funding by an additional $6 billion over 5 years.

Mr. Speaker, that is the mess that we were left with, this continuing 
resolution, and that was what needed to be resolved. And I said 
throughout my campaign and I say every weekend when I go back and speak 
to these veterans' groups that we are, as a Congress, going to make a 
new commitment to our veterans, a commitment that has not been there 
for the past 12 years; and we are going to put veterans' interests 
first when it comes time to deal with these funding resolutions.

So what did we do? In this continuing resolution that passed this 
House today, the Democrats increased the VA health care budget by $3.6 
billion. Now that is in an atmosphere of having left nine spending 
bills completely undone, and the Republican leadership made no effort 
to increase that funding. But we found the will, as Democrats, and we 
added $3.6 billion to the veterans' budget.

That is leadership; and for that I commend Speaker Pelosi, Chairman 
Obey and the rest of the Democratic leaders who were involved in 
putting that together. That is what we have done here today.

So, at this point, I am going to yield to the gentleman from Ohio so 
he can continue to run the show.