---
---

# FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007
## `f1dd46c5899d2819209eb541aad96078`
`Mr. HARKIN — 5 November 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. It will be opening statements on the bill itself, and we 
will proceed to amendments tomorrow at whatever time the Senate 
convenes.

Mr. President, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry, I am pleased to bring to the floor the Food 
and Energy Security Act of 2007, which enjoys broad bipartisan support 
among all our committee members. In fact, we reported it out by voice 
vote without a negative vote among the Senators who were present. We 
had a quorum present.

I thank our ranking member, the senior Senator from Georgia, Saxby 
Chambliss, for his leadership and partnership in producing the bill, 
along with the chairman and ranking member of the Finance Committee, 
Senator Baucus and Senator Grassley, as well as chairman of the Budget 
Committee, Senator Conrad.

We generally refer to this legislation as the farm bill. But that 
title doesn't do justice to the range and scope of the bill. Yes, the 
bill helps farmers and ranchers who produce an abundance of food and 
fiber and are contributing ever more to our Nation's energy security. 
The bill also helps conserve and protect the environment on tens of 
millions of acres of farmland, ranchland, and wetlands. It is the most 
important legislation to allow millions of low-income American families 
put food on the table. It is the single most important legislation for 
boosting economic growth in jobs and improving the quality of life in 
rural communities across our Nation.

We have faced a huge challenge in writing this legislation this year. 
When we wrote the last farm bill in 2002, we had about $73 billion of 
new money over 10 years to invest. But for this bill, this year, we 
barely had any funding above baseline. Fortunately, we have had some 
help from the Finance Committee in obtaining additional funds. We have 
also reexamined all of the spending in our baseline to come up with 
budget offsets. We have combined these funds and produced what I 
believe is a forward-looking bill to make historic investments in 
energy, conservation, nutrition, rural development, and promoting 
better diets and health for all Americans. It also maintains a strong 
safety net for America's farm producers.

The bill looks to the future and creates new opportunities in 
agriculture and rural communities. Yet I emphasize that this bill 
complies with the strict pay-as-you-go budget rules we adopted earlier 
this year.

This legislation continues a strong system of farm income protection. 
It is a truism that we have heard many times but ''no farms, no food.'' 
Our Nation needs programs that will help farm and ranch families 
survive the inevitable downturns in markets, disasters, and crop 
failures. We need these programs so that the cycles of markets and 
weather do not force out of agriculture people who are so vital to grow 
food, fiber and, increasingly, energy for our Nation.



You will notice I referred to cycles in agriculture. That is why I 
have long been a strong supporter of what is commonly called 
countercyclical income protection programs for our farmers and 
ranchers. That is a type of program that pays adequately when farm 
income falls. Yet it is careful with taxpayers' dollars when farm 
income is good. Because a countercyclical program is good common sense, 
I have never been a fan of direct or, as they came to be known in the 
mid-1990s, freedom-to-farm payments that were enacted in the 1996 farm 
bill.

Since the freedom-to-farm payments or the direct payments are not 
countercyclical, what we have found is that they help too little when 
times are bad for farmers, but they are very hard to justify--direct 
payments to farmers--when we may be having record prices and high 
incomes. How can you justify giving sort of ''free money'' when times 
are good? So, in my view, a very positive feature of the bill is that 
we continue the countercyclical income protection system we reinstated 
in the 2002 bill. We allow farmers at their option to choose a new 
program, called ''average crop revenue,'' modeled after legislation 
introduced by Senators Durbin and Brown. This new choice for 
farmers will make farm income protection stronger and more flexible. It 
will allow farmers better to manage their farm's risk in today's 
uncertain and evolving farm economy.


Our legislation also includes other improvements in countercyclical 
income protection. It is reinstituting a higher payment rate in the 
Milk Income Loss Contract program, or the MILC program, and adjusting 
certain target prices and loans.

I will explain why I stress the countercyclical elements in this 
legislation. The farm programs are supposed to be about income 
protection, helping farm and ranch families survive cycles of hard 
times--the ravages of wind and weather, pestilence--and to stay in 
business.

The farm programs are not supposed to be just about USDA commodity 
program payments and trying to maximize those payments regardless of 
income. Now, it is true that for over 70 years Federal price and income 
supports have been the dominant feature of U.S. food and agriculture 
policy. Yet it is a mistake to suggest that farm program payments are 
somehow the most important contributor to the past success of American 
agriculture or to its success in the future. A lot of times, people say 
these farm programs in the past have been a great success. Look what 
they have done to help us become the leader in the world in terms of 
agricultural production. Well, they have been helpful but not the most 
important.

The most vital elements in the success of American agriculture has 
been the skill, the dedication, and the hard work of the men and women 
and families on farms and ranches across the Nation, and also all of 
the people who develop and supply technology and other production 
requirements, such as all the new hybrids that have come in in the last 
30 to 40 years that increased production exponentially; and, of course, 
the highly productive land and climate with which our Nation has been 
so blessed. Thanks to those factors, agricultural productivity--get 
this--rose some 116 percent from 1960 to 2004, while in other U.S. 
industries it rose 13 percent. So there has been a 116-percent increase 
in productivity of agriculture and only 13 percent in the rest of the 
American economy.

So while this legislation we have today is vitally important, let us 
not forget the true sources of America's agricultural strength and 
abundance. For those reasons, I strongly believe that, in addition to a 
solid countercyclical farm income protection system, we must also make 
investments to help U.S. agriculture succeed in the future, as I will 
explain in a moment.

One area in the bill where we are reaching out to help agricultural 
producers is in initiatives for growers of what we call specialty 
crops--fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, other horticultural or 
floricultural crops. Past farm bills focused heavily on a few crops 
that have come to be known as storable commodities, most notably 
cotton, rice, corn, soybeans, and wheat, which are, of course, vitally 
important. However, according to USDA, specialty crops now account for 
roughly 50 percent of the total value of U.S. crop production.

In this bill before us, we include a dramatic increase in our 
assistance to specialty crop producers but not in the form of subsidies 
or payments. They have not asked for those. This legislation will help 
our Nation's specialty crop growers address the very diverse challenges 
they face in today's complex and global marketplace.

The programs within this bill will help America's specialty crop 
producers gain access to overseas markets where they can promote and 
sell their products. It will also strengthen our national prevention 
and surveillance system for invasive pests and diseases, which will 
help protect the stability and health of fruits and vegetables in this 
country. And, of course, we increase research on specialty crops to 
prevent the spread of plant-based viruses. For instance, the Clean 
Plant Network, for which we include $20 million over the life of the 
bill, will be a tremendous help to our orchard and nursery industries. 
The Clean Plant Network establishes a national system of diagnostic and 
research facilities to help ensure that our orchards and nurseries have 
the safest plant materials possible to grow the fruits and vegetables 
we need.

We also provide a significant amount of money in this bill to address 
the trade-related challenges of U.S. specialty crop producers. The 
current trade deficit for specialty crops in the United States is 
roughly $2.7 billion. In other words, we import $2.7 billion more in 
fruits and vegetables, horticulture, items such as that, than we 
export.

The Market Access Program at USDA provides funding to nonprofit 
agricultural trade associations and agriculture cooperatives to help 
promote U.S. agricultural products overseas--in other words, to try to 
get that balance of payments more in line. The bill invests an 
additional $94 million in the Market Access Program, which brings the 
program up to almost $240 million a year. Again, this program has been 
tremendously popular among specialty crop producers who receive nearly 
50 percent of the MAP funding.

The bill also makes crucial investments in the prevention of invasive 
pests and diseases. A total of $200 million in new funding is provided 
for a pest and disease program at USDA to enter into cooperative 
agreements with State departments of agriculture that conduct early 
plant pest detection and surveillance activities.

To some, the farm bill may seem an abstraction, removed from the 
pulse of everyday life, but this is not the case. The farm bill touches 
the lives of millions of Americans every single day, and nowhere is 
this more evident than in the nutrition title of the farm bill.

In the nutrition sections of this bill, we strengthen America's 
commitment to fighting hunger and promoting sound health and nutrition. 
By strengthening food assistance to low-income Americans, the bill that 
is before us will help millions of Americans who currently live daily 
in the shadow of hunger. Because of the assistance this bill provides, 
millions of Americans will put food on their tables, will be better 
able to afford childcare so they can enter the workforce, will be able 
to save modest sums for retirement or for the education of their 
children, and because of this bill, millions of low-income children in 
schools throughout America will be introduced--some perhaps for the 
first time--to fresh fruits and vegetables that science tells us are 
critical to sound health and prevention of diet-related chronic 
diseases.

The current USDA nutrition assistance programs need to be modernized 
and strengthened. Nowhere is that more evident than in the persistence 
of the term ''Food Stamp Program.'' We have all heard of food stamps, 
even though food stamps, the paper coupons, have long since gone by the 
wayside. So we renamed it the ''Food and Nutrition Program.'' It is no 
longer the ''Food Stamp Program,'' it is the ''Food and Nutrition 
Program.'' We update it in a number of important ways.

We made some progress in the 2002 farm bill, but the economic 
challenges of low-income Americans, in many respects, multiplied in 
recent years.

Since 1999, the number of Americans experiencing food insecurity has 
increased from 31 million to 35 million. Similarly, between 2000 and 
2006, median household income in the United


States, adjusted for inflation, actually decreased. Over the same 
period, the number and percentage of American children living in 
poverty increased. So USDA food assistance has not kept up with 
inflation or changes in the real world. For example, because of budget 
cuts enacted in the mid-1990s, the purchasing power of USDA food 
benefits has continued to erode with each passing year. Similarly, 
despite growing recognition that low-income Americans require the same 
incentives to save for their future as others, current rules all but 
force low-income Americans to spend down their meager savings to rock 
bottom before they are eligible to receive food assistance during times 
of insecurity.

These punitive rules on family assets have not been meaningfully 
addressed since the late 1970s. Let's take the case of a single mother 
who is working and has a couple of kids. She may be working at a low-
income job, but she has put away a little bit of money for a rainy day. 
She loses her job. Something happens, and she is temporarily unemployed 
and needs to have food assistance for herself and her children. Right 
now, she has over $2,000 in savings. She is ineligible for any food 
assistance. That $2,000 was set in the 1970s and has barely been 
increased since. If it had kept up with inflation, that would be about 
$6,000 now. That is one of the items we address in this bill.

Finally, as more and more low-income women have entered the workforce 
in recent years, Congress has often spoken of the need to support 
families during this transition from welfare to work, but our actions 
have not suited and matched our rhetoric. For example, despite the fact 
that childcare is critical to successful participation of women in the 
workforce, when calculating income for a household to qualify for food 
assistance and to set benefit levels, no more than $175 per child per 
month can be counted as childcare costs despite the fact that the 
average monthly cost of childcare in 2006 was well over $600.

So I am proud to say this bill addresses all of these issues. It 
stops the erosion and even increases food assistance for most recipient 
families. It reforms the asset rules by increasing the asset limit 
modestly. I wish we could have done more. We just didn't have the money 
for it, but we did increase it. We also adjusted for inflation. We 
exempt tax-deferred retirement accounts and education savings accounts 
from the asset limit. We take that off the table.

It promotes work by allowing the full deduction of childcare costs. 
They get to deduct that cost. There is no more $175 limit. Whatever 
your childcare costs, you get to deduct it. I again thank the 
administration. In their farm bill they proposed earlier this year, 
this is also one of the key features of the administration's policy, to 
take away that limit on the childcare deduction.

Fighting hunger and food insecurity is the central mission of the 
farm bill's nutrition title, but it is not the only mission. In this 
title, we also seek to address poor health and nutrition among 
America's children. Much has been said and written about the sad state 
of nutrition among our kids, manifested in rising rates of type 2 
diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and a national epidemic of childhood 
obesity.

In this bill, we act to improve child nutrition with a major 
expansion of the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program for schools. I was 
able to initiate this program in the 2002 farm bill.

I have always believed that one of the reasons kids don't eat fresh 
fruits and vegetables is because they simply don't have the opportunity 
to do so. I figured, let's give them an opportunity and see what 
happens. So we began by providing fresh fruits and vegetables--free, I 
might add--free fresh fruits and vegetables to 100 schools in four 
States and one Indian reservation. We wanted to test it: What would 
happen if we gave free fresh fruits and vegetables to kids at school--
not in the lunchroom, but when they get the growlies at 9 o'clock in 
the morning or in the afternoon when they get a little tired or antsy, 
kids need something to eat. What if they had fresh fruits and 
vegetables available at those times? What happened is the kids, the 
teachers, the principals, the parents all loved this program. Not one 
of the schools that has participated in this program--and it is all 
voluntary, no one is forced into it--not one school that has 
participated in this program has asked to drop out. In fact, every 
school that has participated has begged to stay in it.

By 2005, because other States were clamoring to get into the program, 
and other schools, we expanded to 10 States and two more Indian 
reservations. That is how successful it has been. In those States in 
which we do have the program, the schools that are not getting the free 
fresh fruits and vegetables are lining up saying: We want it also.

We have seen the positive effects it has had. Kids no longer are 
eating junk food. Kids are no longer sneaking candy and cookies. They 
are no longer going to vending machines to get some sugary snack. They 
are eating fresh fruits and vegetables.

In this bill, we make a quantum leap forward for this program. The 
bill provides $1 billion--that is right, $1 billion--over 5 years to 
expand the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program to reach nearly 4.5 
million children nationwide, with a special focus on high-poverty 
school districts.

I wish to emphasize that point. I have been to some of these schools 
where they have the free fresh fruit and vegetables program. I can 
remember being in one school where some of the fourth-grade kids had 
never had a fresh apple in their entire lifetime--fourth grade; fresh 
bananas, they never had such a thing. I remember I was at a class one 
time, and they had fresh pears. The kids didn't even know what they 
were--kiwi fruit, strawberries. I remember I went to a school in Iowa 
once--and our schools let out in the summer after the first crop of 
strawberries is harvested. The principal told me that by 10 a.m. in the 
morning, there wasn't a strawberry left in school. Kids eat these fresh 
fruits. I have actually seen with my own eyes kids eat fresh broccoli. 
That may come as a surprise to some people, a shock, that kids actually 
eat fresh broccoli. I have actually seen kids eat fresh spinach.

Because of the popularity of the program, because it has grown, some 
of the marketers are now packaging fruits and vegetables just for this 
program, so the kids get a little plastic package, they rip it open, 
and they have enough in there for a little snack. As I said, it has 
taken off. It is providing better health, better nutrition for kids. 
They study better. They behave better.

There was some reticence when we started this program. Teachers said: 
Oh my gosh, kids will be throwing peels on the floor, apple cores at 
each other, making a mess of everything. This has not happened. In 
fact, teachers are now some of the strongest supporters of this 
program.

So when you go into these schools, you can see these kids eating 
these foods, ripping open a package and getting little baby spinach 
leaves, and they have a little tin of ranch dip, they dip it and eat 
it. I always said I didn't like broccoli until I had fresh broccoli. 
Who likes cooked broccoli and cooked spinach? It is not good for you. 
It may be good for you, but fresh is very good.

I emphasize this point because we are expanding this program. I have 
a goal I have stated, and as long as I am here, I am going to keep 
fighting for that goal; that is, to make sure this program is available 
to every elementary school in America within 10 years. I think it will 
do more to prevent childhood obesity, provide better health, plus when 
kids start eating these fruits and vegetables--and we have some 
anecdotal evidence of kids who are eating fresh fruits and vegetables, 
and they go home and ask their parents: Can we have some of this at 
home or they go to the store with their parents, when they go shopping, 
and say: I had this in school, I really liked this fruit or I like 
these vegetables, can we have this at home? It is going to do a lot for 
helping get at this problem of childhood obesity and some of the 
chronic diseases, such as diabetes, among younger kids.

Now, I wish to talk a little bit about the energy title, another very 
important and kind of a new area for agriculture. The energy title will 
help farmers in rural communities across the country join in a major 
transition in which our agricultural sector supplies clean biofuels and 
renewable energy for all of America. It gives farmers a chance to add 
biomass crops to their farming operations, with Federal


support to protect against the financial risks associated with the 
transition. It supports rural communities with the development of 
biorefineries for the production of biofuels and bioproducts. It helps 
farmers and ranchers and rural small businesses that want to improve 
their own energy systems through grants and loan guarantees for energy 
efficiency improvements and renewable energy systems. It emphasizes a 
particular opportunity--help for farmers and communities to install 
livestock manure to energy facilities that address environmental and 
odor problems, while utilizing a valuable energy resource. It will make 
investments in research that will complement and enhance rural energy 
production opportunities. Members of the Senate are well aware of the 
disastrous consequences of America's dependence on foreign oil. No less 
an authority than Alan Greenspan has said the war in Iraq is about oil. 
At the same time, with oil prices relentlessly approaching $100 a 
barrel, our dependence on foreign oil is a threat to both our national 
security and the health of our economy.

The bigger picture is that new oil discoveries around the world are 
steadily declining at the same time that global oil consumption is 
rising. I have a chart to indicate that. These are the billion barrels 
of oil per year in discoveries, and we can see in the 1930s, the 1950s, 
a huge increase, the 1960s, the 1970s a little bump up there with 
Alaska, and then we keep coming down. We can see that global oil 
discoveries are rapidly, rapidly, rapidly declining. At the same time, 
we superimposed on that this red line showing consumption. So as the 
oil discoveries are going down, look at our consumption. It keeps going 
up and up and up.

Well, the Petroleum Council's report delivered to the Department of 
Energy this past summer states that:




 It is a hard truth that the global supply of oil and 


 natural gas from the conventional sources relied upon 


 historically is unlikely to meet the projected 50- to 60-


 percent growth in demand over the next 25 years.


Well, our country needs energy. We need energy to grow and to 
produce. We need energy for the new kinds of manufacturing we are going 
to have in this country, for transportation. It is an urgent national 
priority to accelerate our transition from oil to homegrown, farm-based 
renewable sources of fuel and electrical power. If we reach our full 
potential in producing renewable biofuels using feedstocks from our 
farms and forests, we can replace as much as 30 percent of our 
transportation fuels by 2030--by 2030.

Right now, current ethanol production is about 7 billion gallons 
annually. I believe we are headed toward a production of 60 billion 
gallons of biofuels, requiring 50 to 100 million acres of crop lands 
dedicated to biomass crops by the year 2030. These charts show the 
sharp upward trajectory of biofuels over the past 5 years and with the 
contributions we are making in this bill.

So here is what we have done in biofuels. It doesn't go back very 
far. If you go back to about the late 1980s, early 1990s--millions of 
gallons. Not very much. But look at the sharp curve up as we came up in 
the late 1990s into 2000 and 2005. Then let us look at the projections. 
Here we are at 2005, and here is 2030 at 60 billion gallons per year. 
So that is the trajectory. That is the trajectory we are basically on 
and a lot of us are committed to. Senator Lugar and I have a bill in 
that basically--and others have cosponsored it--to mandate we reach 
that level by 2030.

Well, the energy title in this bill allocates $1.1 billion over 5 
years for new investments in farm-based energy. It is imperative we 
accelerate the transition of biofuels produced from cellulosic 
feedstocks, in addition to grains and oilseeds, if we want to get to 
that 60 billion gallons per year. And here, in addition to speeding up 
the development and evaluation of conversion technologies, we also 
confront a classic chicken-and-egg dilemma. Entrepreneurs would not 
build cellulosic biorefineries in the absence of reliable feedstock. 
Producers would not grow the cellulosic feedstocks unless and until 
there are biorefineries to produce them. Well, in this bill we address 
this dilemma very aggressively.

On the supply side, we allocate $130 million over 5 years to the 
biomass crop transition program. We know it takes a few years to get 
crops, such as switchgrass or miscanthus or soft pine or fast-growing 
poplars or whatever it might be, to get them started and established, 
so farmers are going to need financial assistance during the 
transition. That is what we provide in the Senate bill.

On the other side, on the demand side, we allocate $300 million to 
support grants and loans for biorefinery pilot plants, loan guarantees 
for commercial biorefineries, and support for repowering existing corn 
ethanol plants and other facilities so they can process cellulosic 
ethanol.

In addition, we continue the CCC Bioenergy Program with $245 million 
to support feedstock purchases for advanced biofuels production. We 
continue the section 9006 program of grants and loan guarantees that we 
put in the 2002 farm bill. This is for farmers and ranchers to purchase 
renewable energy systems or energy efficiency systems for their own 
farm or ranch. The budget for this is $230 million, double what we put 
in the farm bill in 2002. We are including about $140 million for 
biomass research, including biomass crop experiments.

A large part of the future of biofuels lies in the use of cellulosic 
feedstocks. Cellulosic fuels, biofuels, can be produced just about 
everywhere in the United States. This will expand biofuels production 
beyond our major corn-producing regions and to places closer to where 
the fuels are blended and consumed.

I will make this prediction. If we can preserve the Senate energy 
provisions in conference--maybe get some additional funding for them, 
which we will try to do--I predict that within 5 years, by the end of 
the life of this farm bill, we are going to see cellulosic biofuel 
refineries sprouting up akin to mushrooms all over this country. That 
will help restore our energy security and our national security. It is 
good for the environment and good for farmers and the rural economy.

Now, let me talk a little bit about another important part of this 
farm bill, and that is the conservation title. Agriculture and forest 
lands account for 69 percent of all the land in the United States. That 
means farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners are the first line of 
defense for our environment. They are America's first conservationists. 
The conservation title of this bill gives them the tools they need for 
voluntary efforts to conserve oil, to protect water and air quality, to 
increase wildlife habitat on their land, and maintain and improve our 
Nation's natural resources for future generations.


The conservation programs are similar to a toolkit to address 
conservation needs, from the basic function of providing technical 
assistance on how best to, for instance, protect the waterway from 
erosion and runoff, to paying for easements, to protect wetlands and 
grasslands or working farmland that is under the threat of development, 
to cost-share incentive payments and enhancement payments to help 
farmers build and adopt new conservation practices.

This bill looks to the future in preserving our natural resources by 
allocating $4 billion in new budget authority for the conservation 
title. This is extraordinarily important to the future of farming in 
the United States. I am pleased we were able to accomplish so much with 
relatively limited funding. For example, the Wetlands Reserve Program 
had no baseline to continue to enroll wetlands after this year, so we 
had to put in new money for that. The Grassland Reserve Program was 
also out of funds to enroll new land. We had to put new money in for 
that. The Conservation Security Program's funding had been cut by 
billions, almost $4 billion over the last 5 years, to pay for 
agricultural disasters and budget reconciliation. We needed to restore 
sufficient funding to allow the program to enroll more acres 
nationwide, and I am pleased to say we have successfully resolved all 
of these funding challenges.

In addition to maintaining or expanding existing programs, we 
addressed some new needs in this bill. For example, here in the mid-
Atlantic area, where Washington, DC, is located, we devote $165 million 
to improving conservation to help clean up the Chesapeake Bay. This is 
money that will be used for upland treatment so all that runoff would 
not be going into the Chesapeake Bay.

In the Southeast, in order to provide better wildlife habitat, we 
provide


funding to improve the management of trees planted on Conservation 
Reserve Program acres. I am pleased to join with the committee's 
ranking member, Senator Chambliss, who was the basic mover behind this.

The conservation title also establishes new incentives for producers 
to allow voluntary public access to their land for hunting, fishing, 
and other wildlife-related activities. Senator Conrad has been a leader 
on this issue. I am pleased to have cosponsored his legislation, and we 
have included it in this bill.

The conservation title also makes important policy changes. We have 
worked to streamline the process to acquire conservation easements in 
the Wetland Reserve Program, the Farmland Protection Program, and the 
Grassland Reserve Program. That process has been paper heavy since the 
beginning. In this bill, we have addressed that to cut down on the 
paperwork.

In this bill, we make significant improvements in the Conservation 
Security Program, which was created in the 2002 farm bill to reward 
farmers and ranchers for good conservation practices on working lands. 
Now, this was new in the 2002 farm bill. In the past, most conservation 
programs were lands that were taken out of production, in one way or 
the other--wetlands, grasslands, the CRP and others. But as we saw more 
and more land coming into production, a lot of it for ethanol 
production, more and more marginal lands started coming in and we had 
to do something about that. In this bill, the program was renamed the 
Conservation Stewardship Program to reflect the goal of the program to 
promote the long-term benefits to our Nation by adopting and 
maintaining good conservation practices.

We have yet to realize the full potential of the Conservation 
Stewardship Program because of tight restrictions on funding that 
excluded many producers. Regulations only allowed certain farms and 
acres to be enrolled in certain designated watersheds every year. In 
addition, the process resulted in some kinds of crops and production 
techniques being largely excluded from the program, such as organics, 
for example. Well, the new Conservation Stewardship Program will 
eliminate these shortcomings. It will grow rapidly, at a pace of more 
than 13 million acres a year, which, with the 15 million already 
enrolled, will total 80 million acres in 5 years.

Acres will be allocated to States based not on watersheds but simply 
on each State's share of the national eligible acres. Within each 
State, enrollment will be accomplished through a ranking process that 
will prioritize producers who are already doing good conservation and 
who are willing to do even more.

Again, I emphasize that this program we started in 2002 is going to 
grow rapidly, as I said 80 million acres, and the idea behind it 
basically is to reward farmers for being good conservationists--those 
farmers who practice good tillage methods, conservation tillage, who 
put buffer strips along rivers and streams; those who apply the right 
amount of fertilizer, not excessive amounts of fertilizer that can run 
off into our rivers and streams, polluting the Chesapeake Bay and other 
places.


So again, the idea is to reward good stewardship of our land, and I 
think it is a good investment. I think it is one that will be broadly 
supported by the American people. As I said, these kinds of 
conservation programs are more important than ever. The rising demand 
for commodities is bringing millions of acres into production. A lot of 
land that was in the Conservation Reserve Program is now coming out.

We can't force people into the Conservation Reserve Program, and we 
don't have enough money to bid everything back into it. So if that land 
is going to be planted for some kind of crop production, then we better 
help ensure it is done in a conserving manner. So we provide the 
incentives in the Conservation Stewardship Program to make sure they 
get the technical assistance, the cost-share, and the payments to 
prevent erosion and runoff.

As we look to the future, we have to look at these conservation 
programs not only as a boost to the environment and cleaning up our 
environment but as a WTO, a World Trade Organization-compliant, non-
trade distorting way of assisting farmers and ranchers.

I got the idea for this Conservation Security Program--now renamed 
Conservation Stewardship Program--traveling through Europe in the late 
1990s and looking at their farms and being amazed at the countryside. 
Then I looked at how much money European countries were giving to help 
their farmers--a lot more than we were--for conservation. I had to 
figure this out. How were they providing so much money to farmers--more 
than we were--but they didn't violate trade rules? Yet the money we 
were giving to farmers violated trade rules.

It was simply they were making ''green payments'' to farmers--
payments to their farmers for conservation--cleaning up rivers and 
streams. Green payments. Green payments are under the ''green box'' of 
WTO, and it is WTO compliant. So we do not violate any of our 
agreements under WTO by providing farmers incentives for good 
conservation.

Now, I mentioned earlier that one element has been overlooked 
seriously in our farm bills in the past. We put a little bit in the 
2002 farm bill dealing with organics, and that was a cost-share for the 
organic certification. But the fact is, organics is the fastest growing 
sector in U.S. agriculture. The demand for organic products is so great 
that it far outpaces our domestic supply. Much of that $2.7 billion of 
products, all agricultural products coming into this country over what 
we send out, is organics. I have had people in the organics food 
business, who sell organic foods, say they can't get it locally; they 
cannot get it in this country, so they have to import it. Well, we 
don't have enough farmers getting into organic production, so imports 
pick up the slack. In this bill, we make it a priority to help farmers 
who are serious about getting into organic food production, and we help 
them overcome the challenges of transitioning into this industry.

We include $80 million over 5 years for research into organic 
production and marketing. We include $5 million for price yields and 
overall data collection, which we don't even know about. We remove the 
5-percent surcharge arbitrarily charged to organic producers who want 
to reduce their risk by buying crop insurance. Crop insurance had a 5-
percent surcharge on it. We removed that. We make EQIP more universally 
available for farmers to transition into organic agriculture.

Now, one of the problems in organics that we have had is for a farmer 
to get certified to be organic, you have to have at least 3 years of 
not using pesticides, that type of thing.

During that 3-year period the farmer cannot sell into the organic 
market, and receive higher prices, yet still is bearing the costs of 
making the transition to organic production.

So we have provided some cost-share assistance to help farmers adopt 
sound conservation practices that are part of the transition to organic 
production. If they are serious about becoming organic producers, we 
will provide help in pursuing that opportunity.

Let's also talk about the assistance in this bill addressing global 
hunger and malnutrition through our food aid and development assistance 
programs, another part of our bill. We are very proud that over the 
last half century the United States has been the world's leading donor 
of food to hungry people. That is a source of great pride to us. U.S. 
programs are estimated to have helped more than 3.5 billion people over 
that period. I firmly believe our humanitarian activities throughout 
the developing world continue to be an essential component of our long-
term effort to combat poverty and to build bridges of goodwill to 
foreign countries. It is a shocking fact that in the 21st century there 
is an estimated 800 million hungry people in the world, nearly half of 
them children.

In April, the Government Accountability Office released a study on 
how to improve the targeting and efficiency of U.S. international food 
aid programs, a study that Senator Chambliss and I requested last year. 
I am pleased to report that the agencies involved in the delivery of 
U.S. food aid are on a path to adopt most of the recommendations made 
by the GAO. Some of the other recommendations, those that require 
statutory changes, are addressed in this bill.

We set aside a specific amount of funding under title II food aid for 
nonemergency development assistance


projects. The creation of this ''safe box,'' as it is called, is 
intended to send a strong message that it is not acceptable for USAID 
to use nonemergency program funding as the piggy bank to raid if 
regular appropriations for title II emergency programs are inadequate. 
It is shortsighted to withdraw assistance from hungry people struggling 
to break the vicious circle of poverty in order to provide food to even 
hungrier or more desperate people. To me, this approach is like using 
one family's seed corn to feed another family. In the end, both 
families are left hungry, and the first family's efforts to lift 
themselves out of poverty are hindered. So we address that in this 
bill.

The trade title also gives USAID authority for a pilot program to 
conduct local or regional cash purchases of food. For the last few 
years, the President has requested authority to use up to 25 percent of 
title II funds for local or regional cash purchases, but this concept 
needs careful testing before we consider adopting it on a larger scale. 
I also want to make clear that I see local cash purchases as a 
complement to donation of U.S. commodities, not as a substitute.

As I have already noted, the funding for this new farm bill is 
extremely tight, so we were limited in what we could do to increase 
resources for international food aid. However, the title containing 
food aid provides an increase for the amount that can be spent in 
transporting U.S. food commodities under the Food for Progress Program 
from the current $40 million annually to $48 million.

The Food for Progress Program is aimed at improving economies and 
helping to build democratic institutions in developing countries and in 
Eastern European countries transitioning to democracy. Obviously, we 
would have liked to do more to increase funding for the Food for 
Progress Program.

I also would have liked to have provided mandatory funds for the 
excellent McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child 
Nutrition Program, which I helped to establish in law in the 2002 farm 
bill. The McGovern-Dole program is designed to encourage children in 
developing countries to go to school and stay in school by providing 
them free or subsidized food. It has a lot of similarities to the 
School Lunch Program in this country. In its brief lifetime, the 
program has helped 19 million kids attend and stay in school in 
developing countries.

Think about it this way. In the United States, we provide free and 
reduced-price school lunches all over America and they help families a 
great deal. We may not think so much about the impact of that because 
in the overall economy of our nation food costs only about 10 percent 
of our disposable income on food. In some of the poorest countries, 
where food may consume perhaps 60 percent or more of disposable income, 
providing free food to children who attend school is a very big benefit 
to that family. That food can be the magnet that gets children out of 
an abusive child labor situation and into school. So it is a great 
program.

I remember when both Senator Dole and Senator McGovern came to see me 
about it in the late 1990s, trying to get it into the next farm bill, 
which we did, and their hopes and dreams for it. I still think if we 
can put the money into this program and grow it, it could be one of the 
best things we could do to fight hunger and poverty, to end child labor 
and to root out some of the harsh economic conditions, anger and 
frustration that may even lead some to turn to terrorism.

Despite limited new funding, I am proud of the work we have done on 
food aid and other trade issues in this bill.

We also in this bill help promote farmers markets, which are 
expanding all over the country. I can remember barely 10 years ago in 
my State of Iowa you could probably count the number of farmers markets 
on both hands. Now they are all over. In the Washington, DC, area, and 
other metropolitan areas, in the last several years we have seen 
farmers markets springing up all over the place. People want to 
purchase fresh, locally grown food. However, these are very challenging 
enterprises. They require grassroots organizing, planning and 
advertising; farmers have to be recruited; there are regulatory and 
logistical challenges.


In both the 2002 farm bill and this new farm bill, I have worked to 
help people overcome some of these barriers to establishing successful 
farmers markets. In the 2002 farm bill we added a program called the 
Farmers Market Promotion Program to help people develop and organize 
farmers markets and to enable direct producer-to-consumer market 
opportunities. In the legislation before us, we include $30 million for 
the life of the bill for these types of activities.

Too often farmers can and want to expand production of foods to be 
sold locally, but they face difficulties finding markets. Larger retail 
outlets want consistent supplies and abundant quantity, which is 
something a small farmer just can't provide. This bill seeks to solve 
this problem by fostering new opportunities for farmers to band 
together, providing funding through the value-added product market 
development grant program, as well as loans through the Business and 
Industry Loan Program. The idea is to promote what we call aggregators, 
where farmers who grow produce--vegetables or fruits or whatever it 
might be, or maybe they want to do some free-range chickens or organic 
meat or something like that--can join together to tap into bigger 
markets. What we need are aggregators who can go out to this farmer and 
that farmer and that farmer and say: OK, you bring your beets here and 
you bring your beets and you bring your beets or you bring your carrots 
or you bring your eggs or whatever it is. We put them together, and 
then we can sell them to larger buyers.

That is what we have done in this bill to promote and make it easier 
for farmers to get their produce to farmers markets.

For rural communities, as we seek to promote new opportunities in 
production agriculture, we have to realize the success of our farm 
households is tied not only to what is produced on the farm but the 
strength of the surrounding economy--rural economic development. 
Currently, more than 80 percent of total farm household income comes 
from sources off the farm.

I have a chart that shows that. It is amazing when you look at it. 
The percent of farm household income from off-farm sources 2 years ago: 
in the Northern Great Plains, 69.3 percent; in the Heartland, where I 
am from, Iowa, 66.7 percent; Mississippi Portland, 90.1 percent; 
Southern Seaboard, 94.9 percent; Northern Crescent, 85.2 percent. I 
guess we would probably be the least, in the Heartland, 66.7 percent. 
So even in our area, two-thirds of farming comes from off-farm income 
sources.

Again, 9 out of 10 people who live in rural America are not farmers. 
So our committee has a responsibility for crafting public policies that 
support not only farmers but all of our citizens who live in small 
towns and rural communities.

Rural America confronts unique challenges because of its low 
population density, the limited capacity of local governments and other 
special circumstances. In recent years we have come to appreciate that 
agriculture and rural development are closely intertwined. They have a 
common fate. We need to go forward with a policy framework that 
supports both our farms and our rural economy.

For years many economic development leaders have been frustrated that 
we have failed to create a more comprehensive approach to rural 
economic development. That is why I am excited about the Rural 
Collaborative Investment Program in this bill, which received $135 
million in funding over 5 years. This new program provides Federal 
support for regional collaboration. It is becoming clearer to us that 
no one rural town or county can go it alone. Rural areas must work 
together regionally to scale up investments, build competitive economic 
clusters, and overcome geographic disadvantages.

The Rural Collaborative Investment Program awards innovation grants 
on a competitive basis to regions that creatively leverage these funds 
with other Federal, State, private, and philanthropic resources.

It provides incentives for elected officials, leaders of the business 
community, and nonprofit organizations to come together, to jointly 
develop plans that work best to improve the economy in their particular 
area.

Those who develop the best plans will receive significant resources 
from


USDA to help implement their plans. Because of limited Federal funding, 
many who compete for innovation grants will not get one, but they will 
still come out winners because they will have gained valuable 
experience in collaborating across county and town boundaries, and they 
will have completed a plan of action tailored to their specific area.

Again, this is so essential. If we look at the fact that the majority 
of farm household income is coming from nonfarm income, what good does 
it do to help our farm families if all of the small towns dry up and 
blow away? Already in my own State of Iowa, kids who live on farms and 
in small towns are riding school buses longer and longer distances as 
schools consolidate.

Farm families cannot even buy the essentials for their families 
without driving long distances, because there is not enough business to 
support local stores. We have small towns in Iowa where churches no 
longer exist. We have to do something to start enhancing the economic 
viability of our small towns and communities. That is what we do with 
the Rural Collaborative Investment Program.

One other key element I want to point out is the promotion of 
community foundations. You know, rural Americans possess hundreds of 
billions of dollars in assets. Much of it is in land. Good valuable 
land. And, quite frankly, a large share of this, I know in my area, and 
in the upper Midwest--I do not know so much about some other parts of 
the country, but I bet it holds true almost all over--a large share of 
the asset value is held by people who are 65 years of age and older.

Well, these farmers, ranchers, businesspeople and others care deeply 
about their communities. They care deeply about their rural way of 
life. They care about the institution of the family farm. Many would be 
more than happy to give a generous share of their wealth back to their 
communities if they had a credible agency to make good use of the gift.

That is exactly the role that community foundations play. They are 
the perfect vehicle for bringing together local financing, local brain 
power, local leadership, to focus on solutions tailored to a given 
community or group of communities.

The rural development title of this bill also provides $40 million 
for a new microloan program championed by the Senator from Nebraska, 
Mr. Nelson. This initiative provides support for organizations that 
help people of modest means acquire the expertise to start their own 
businesses. It provides small loans to these new entrepreneurs.

We provide $50 million in new funding for rural hospitals. Each 
dollar supports about $18 in direct loans, and generates even more 
dollars in the form of loan guarantees. This funding will help rural 
hospitals acquire the equipment they need to improve patient care and 
to computerize their records, for example. In talking about all of the 
needs in rural America, one of the big needs is health care, and in 
making sure we have rural hospitals there with primary and emergency 
care.

We also provide $40 million for the construction of daycare centers. 
Again, demographics show many young families are leaving rural America. 
Poll after poll shows they want to stay there. But they need an off-
farm job, and to get that off-farm job, they need daycare, and there 
simply is not much daycare to be had. Access to quality, affordable 
daycare is a big part of the solution. It is urgently needed.

Another one of the big problems in rural America is the backlog of 
requests for money for good drinking water and for wastewater systems. 
This bill provides $135 million to reduce the backlog of these 
applications.

One other thing that is going to help a lot with rural jobs is the 
introduction of broadband services to our small towns and communities; 
and not only to small towns and communities but to the farms 
themselves. I like to think the extension of broadband to our farms and 
rural areas is every bit as essential today as the extension of 
electric lines was to our farms and rural areas back in the rural 
electrification days of the 1920s and 1930s.

The bill does that. We provide financial resources, we cut down on 
paperwork. We also cut down--basically we shift from financial 
assistance going to areas that already have broadband service. We do 
not need that. We need to get it into areas that do not have it. 
Broadband is a basic utility, both for the kids who need it for their 
schoolwork, and for farmers and rural business people in order to do 
business. I know of instances where in small communities, a small 
business person was growing his insurance business, but he needed 
access to broadband. There were, I forget exactly how many, less than 
10 people who worked there. But he was going to grow his business. He 
knew he could, but he knew he needed broadband access. If he had 
broadband access, he could have stayed in that small town, maybe 
employed 15 to 20 people. Since he could not do it, he moved to a 
larger city, Des Moines, our capital. At least he stayed in Iowa, but I 
would have much preferred if he could have stayed in that small town 
and community and had broadband service. We need to extend broadband as 
rapidly as possible.

Let me talk briefly about agricultural research, which has been so 
important for that 116 percent increase I talked about in agriculture 
productivity since 1960.

The research title will increase competitive grant opportunities for 
basic and applied agricultural research; it will strengthen the 
research, extension, and education programs administered by USDA 
through our land grant institutions. It will achieve these objectives 
by restructuring the grant administering agency at USDA and 
transforming it into a national institute of food and agriculture. This 
will improve, integrate, and streamline the management of competitive 
and infrastructure programs, and will require a roadmap to be led by 
the Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics, to refocus 
the research mission at USDA.


As I have said, agricultural research has historically produced 
enormous benefits from relatively modest funding. In my experience, few 
people appreciate the transformational impact of breakthroughs in 
agricultural research. To give one example, consider the work of an 
Iowan, Dr. Norman Borlaug, beginning in the 1950s. His methods of high-
volume crossbreeding and shuttle breeding in order to develop disease-
resistant wheat varieties were soon applied to other crops around the 
world, fostering what was known as the ''green revolution'' which has 
saved upwards of a billion lives.

Dr. Borlaug won the Nobel Peace Prize and recently won the 
Congressional Gold Medal in a very nice ceremony here in the Capitol. 
But many people still do not realize how his successes in agricultural 
research have changed the world.

We are continuing to achieve great agronomic breakthroughs in 
agricultural research, but agricultural research is rapidly changing, 
and so we need to change the methodologies by which we fund and promote 
this research. That is what we do in this bill.

With the changes included in this bill, we will elevate the 
visibility of competitive research programs while strengthening our 
infrastructure programs--such as the research, extension and education 
programs--in place at our land grant universities. The National 
Institute of Food and Agriculture will lay the groundwork for a more 
robust agricultural research system, which we hope will lead to 
increased funding in the future, funding, I might add, that has 
remained flat in the past 20 years in inflation-adjusted dollars. I 
would also highlight that in the research title we provide $80 million 
for specialty crops research, such as to advance breeding and 
mechanization, and to improve the safety--I emphasize the safety--of 
fruits and vegetables. We also provide $80 million for research in 
organic agriculture, which as I said earlier is one of the fastest 
growing parts of our agricultural economy.

The largest obstacle to farm entry for beginning farmers and ranchers 
is access to two things, credit and land. Since 1990, a portion of the 
funding in the Farm Service Agency loan programs has been reserved for 
beginning farmers and ranchers. This bill expands the credit 
opportunities for beginning farmers by increasing the funding set-
aside, and increasing the direct farm ownership and operating loan 
limit for the first time in over 20 years. Socially disadvantaged 
farmers face many of


the same challenges as beginning farmers do, and so we increase 
opportunities for them by authorizing wider participation in Farm 
Service Agency loan programs.

I am also proud of the fact that this is the first farm bill ever to 
include a livestock title dedicated to the needs of our livestock, 
poultry, and egg producers, and aimed at promoting animal health and 
expanding market opportunities.

Consolidation and vertical integration of the livestock and poultry 
industry has dramatically reduced the number of buyers, and in some 
regions there are only a few left. This lack of buyers has created an 
acute need for market reforms and more rigorous USDA enforcement of the 
Packers and Stockyards Act and the Agricultural Fair Practices Act.

To that end, this bill eliminates two layers of bureaucracy at USDA. 
It designates a special counsel, so at long last we will have a high-
level official at USDA dedicated to overseeing, managing, and enforcing 
these two acts.

The bill would limit packer ownership of livestock in order to 
provide stability to the marketplace for independent producers. It 
provides basic fairness for producers using contracts, so that 
companies cannot force producers to travel great distances to settle 
disputes; in other words, to travel clear across the country to where a 
packer's headquarters might be located.

In addition, this bill makes arbitration voluntary, so producers are 
not forced into unfriendly terms, requiring mandatory arbitration, in 
take-it-or-leave-it contracts.

Let me also mention that at the urging of Senator Durbin and others, 
the bill requires the creation of a Congressional Bipartisan Food 
Safety Commission. This commission would be responsible for reviewing 
the Nation's food safety system, and making recommendations on how best 
to modernize the current structure.

Over the last year we have had outbreaks of E. coli contamination in 
bagged spinach, lettuce, and numerous recalls of very large quantities 
of meat and meat products. Over the weekend and in today's paper I read 
there are a million pounds of ground beef being recalled from stores in 
this area, and I do not know what other areas of the country. We have 
had repeated cases of contaminated food, everything from peanut butter 
to seafood to hamburger. So the work of this new Congressional 
Bipartisan Food Safety Commission will both be timely and urgent. Our 
consumers are basically demanding that.

In sum, I have sought to lay out the comprehensiveness of this bill. 
A lot of people are focused on payments to farmers. They think that is 
the farm bill. That is a small part of the farm bill. It is 
comprehensive. It addresses food safety, as I just mentioned. Food 
assistance to hungry people abroad, food assistance to hungry people in 
this country, energy, rural economic development, conservation of our 
nation's resources.

In energy, the bill opens up new vistas for energy production in this 
country, biofuels, cellulosic biomass materials; all of this is covered 
in this bill. So this bill is a strong forward-looking bill. It will be 
good for farmers, good for rural communities, good for our environment 
and good for our nation. It will promote our citizen's health, improve 
our energy security, and it is fiscally responsible. The bill won 
strong bipartisan support in the committee, and it deserves the same 
bipartisan support of Senators here on the floor.

As we look ahead to consideration of the bill this week, I hopefully 
can use the Senate's time productively. Obviously, this is the farm 
bill. We want to be productive. I encourage Senators, if they have 
amendments--and I am not encouraging a lot of amendments--to bring 
their amendments to the floor in a timely fashion. Hopefully, we can 
complete our work this week and go to conference as soon as possible.

I assume the chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Baucus, in his 
opening remarks, will dwell more on the part of the substitute 
amendment at the desk that includes provisions of the Finance Committee 
package. It includes a permanent disaster assistance program, tax 
credits that help offset the cost of conservation programs in the bill, 
and other tax provisions related to agriculture and energy. I expect 
Senators Baucus and Grassley will discuss these provisions at greater 
length. However, I thank them both and the members of the Finance 
Committee, including the occupant of the chair, for all of their 
support in helping the Agriculture Committee meet its goals and at the 
same time stay within our budget guidelines.

I know I have taken a lot of time, but for those who may be watching 
on monitors, people around the country watching on C-SPAN, and others 
who think a farm bill is only about payments to farmers, I wanted to 
show the comprehensiveness of this bill. It touches our lives every day 
in many ways, from the abundant food and fiber we enjoy to the safety 
of our food, to fruits and vegetables in schools, to the assistance to 
a family down on their luck who need some food assistance to feed their 
children during a time where they may be out of work for a period. It 
provides funding to help us meet our energy needs, to get us off of the 
oil pipeline to foreign countries. It saves our soil, provides for 
clean water and increased wildlife habitat for hunters and fishermen 
and everyone who enjoys the outdoors. It provides more research into 
improved agricultural technology and practices--how to do things 
better, how to be more productive, more safe. We have growing demands 
on the land. Yet we have to make sure our productivity keeps going up. 
We have seen tremendous strides in the past because of agricultural 
research and what we have accomplished there.

I want people to know, this legislation is not only a farm bill. This 
is a food and energy security bill covering everything--all the food we 
eat and consume, all the food we produce, all the food we have in our 
food assistance programs, and, yes, our energy needs as well. That is 
what this bill is. It is comprehensive. It is a good bill. I encourage 
the support of all Senators for this legislation.

I thank my ranking member and good friend, Senator Chambliss, first 
for his stewardship of this committee when he was chairman and for all 
of the hearings Senator Chambliss had last year all around the country. 
He came to my State of Iowa. We had a great hearing in Iowa. He laid 
the groundwork for this bill. It was a smooth transition this year, 
when our party took over the Senate through the election of last year. 
We continued that groundwork Senator Chambliss laid for this bill.

People wonder why we took so long. Two reasons: One, the farm bill 
bills usually take a long time. I have often said this is my seventh 
farm bill since the time I first entered the House back in 1975. It is 
a very challenging bill to put all together, especially when one has 
the budget constraints we had.

In 2002, that sailed through easily. We had $73 billion over 
baseline. Under the leadership of Senator Conrad and the Budget 
Committee, we decided this year we will not resort to deficit spending 
anymore. We will get out of the hole we are in. We are going to get out 
of the budget deficits we have had in the past. So we have a pay-go 
budget, and we met our obligations with this bill in that regard. It 
took some time to work it out. We also received help from the Finance 
Committee.

The Finance Committee, for many reasons, had a lot of things on their 
plate, too, but once the Finance Committee acted, we had our funding 
through that action, we moved ahead aggressively to finalize the 
legislation and put the bill together. We had tough negotiations, but 
farm bills have always been tough negotiations. They have also been 
good negotiations. They have been done in a spirit of making sure all 
the pieces fit together.

That is what this farm bill does--it makes many pieces of the jigsaw 
puzzle fit together. It may not be everything I wanted in the beginning 
or everything Senator Chambliss wanted in the beginning or anybody 
else, but that is what this is. It is kind of a grand compromise, if I 
may say, to put all these things together and to fit them together so 
the entire country benefits. I say that in the way of thanking Senator 
Chambliss.

I see Senator Conrad in the Chamber. I thank him both in his capacity 
as chairman of the Budget Committee and as a senior member of the 
Agriculture Committee. He helped us put all these numbers together so 
they work.



Again, I close my remarks by thanking Senator Chambliss for his 
stewardship when he was chairman but also for being my partner in 
putting this legislation together as ranking member. It would be fine 
with me if we could quickly vote and move this bill to conference. I 
think Senator Chambliss might agree with me on that. But we will have 
some amendments this week. I hope we can complete them in a timely 
fashion.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
a letter dated November 5, 2007.