---
---

# EFFECTS OF TROOP DEPLOYMENTS
## `f1e5a437c7cf398a8b157b9ce273364f`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ — 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. It really does. And one of the things that we are now 
looking back, and we should even go back to the Vietnam era, a large 
number of those veterans that are homeless out there are suffering from 
posttraumatic stress from the Vietnam veteran era. So we cannot allow 
that to occur to this generation of soldiers coming in from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. So I am real pleased with the resources that we have come 
forward. Now, we have got to make sure that we have those programs and 
treatment that reach out not only to that veteran but to the entire 
family and community as a whole. We allowed for legislation because we 
don't have the sufficient workers out there to provide that treatment, 
to contract out with the community health centers, mental health 
centers, to reach out as quickly as possible to those specific 
soldiers.

We are anticipating, and we are trying to make it more flexible so 
that soldiers can go through that treatment, because we also know that 
part of that is we don't want them to go through the stigma, but it 
almost has to be required that every soldier in those kind of settings 
go through some degree of treatment to assure that we can come to grips 
with it as quickly as possible.

We know that the number of suicides that are occurring right now, 
some 6,000 annually, that is uncalled for. And it is disproportional on 
the side of veterans versus the general public in terms of those 
suicides.

I had a young lady in the military that committed suicide. And, 
believe me, when they commit suicide while in the military, they get 
treated very differently. The family does not get any compensation 
whatsoever. And we are having difficulty right now, as we had 
difficulty with the DOD, Department of Defense, when they ID'd some 
22,000 soldiers with personality disorders. When that occurs, that 
means that it is a preexisting condition. We have to go back and 
assess. Maybe they do belong with that diagnosis, but we have got to 
make sure that they are not wrongly diagnosed and not given what they 
should be; otherwise, they won't be receiving their compensation.

So I want to personally thank you for allowing us to come here 
tonight and talk about our soldiers and their families and their 
children, because they are the ones who are also suffering, and those 
statistics are just alarming and we should not tolerate that.