---
---

# FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `f1ebc857f0a4cf717683ed6478b2c849`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 17 May 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I move to strike the requisite number of 
words.

I want, first of all, to start with a loud applause for the Financial 
Services Committee. As I said in my office, to see this story unfold, 
something that has never happened in this Congress during the tenure 
that I have had, is a real legislative initiative that addresses the 
question of the deficit in housing in America.

This bill, for the first time, will provide a stable and well-
regulated mortgage market. And my good friend from Texas, the spirit 
that he has offered this amendment, I assume that he is both serious, 
and, of course, concerned. But coming from Texas as well, I don't know 
how many Texans my good friend speaks for because this particular 
Affordable Housing Fund does start off the first year in funding the 
devastation of Louisiana and Mississippi, but what it continues to do 
is provide a $500, $600 million affordable Housing Trust Fund that the 
people of Texas will benefit from.



Maybe my good friend has not been to East Texas and seen the 
devastation of Hurricane Rita. Those people, just a few miles down from 
Houston, are still living without housing.

This is a very measured legislative initiative, for the fund 
prohibits any hanky-panky. It has nothing to do with administrative 
costs, political activities, advocacy, lobbying, counseling, travel 
expense, preparation or advice on tax returns. It is all about housing. 
It even limits administrative costs. And it is sunsetted after 5 years.

We in Houston are still suffering from Storm Allison, and an 
affordable housing plan will allow housing to be restored to those who 
are unable to find housing. In fact, what this particular legislation 
will do is to answer the question why 71 percent of extremely low 
income renters pay more than half of their income for housing and 64 
percent of homeowners who are low income pay more than half. There is a 
housing crisis. Right now there is an epidemic of foreclosures because 
of a broken mortgage system that has preyed upon eager Americans to be 
able to buy a home.

The capping of this strategic and innovative formula for affordable 
housing will only dumb-down the opportunities for people to gain 
housing. I can assure you that the throngs of Americans are begging for 
the passage of this legislation tonight, because all an American wants 
to do when you hear them talk about we all are created equal with 
certain inalienable rights, it is all about the quality of life, the 
ability to send a child to school for a good education, a good home and 
good healthcare.

My friend talks about money, $520 million, it may go up a bit, for 
one year. We are spending $1 billion a day almost in Iraq and certainly 
we have a difference of opinion on that use of money. But the real 
question is, what can we do to fix the broken predatory lending system, 
the broken mortgage system, the lack of housing for people who want 
housing? We can pass H.R. 1427.

It is interesting that I am looking at a letter to our colleagues, 
and it says signed by Barney Frank, Mel Watt, Richard Baker and Gary 
Miller. To me, that seems like a bipartisan commitment to this reform.

So I am confused by the gentleman's amendment to cap and to dumb down 
this affordable housing trust fund that would in fact provide money for 
Texas. Those of us in Houston in districts like mine and districts that 
are surrounding all know of the many hard-working survivors who are in 
our community trying to make it from Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane 
Rita. We have ceased calling anyone a deadbeat or someone who doesn't 
want to work or doesn't want housing. I would venture to say if you 
walked along any block, inner-city block, you would find people saying 
give me an opportunity.

Chairman Frank, all I see in this bill is an opportunity; a 
regulated, precise opportunity for affordable housing, and I ask my 
colleagues to defeat the Neugebauer amendment and vote for H.R. 1427.