# None
## `f1f32c1e3f0191e2137015a7221defcd`
`Mr. DREIER — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friend and colleague Mr. 
Peter King for introducing this important resolution, which I was proud 
to cosponsor. I can think of no one more deserving of being honored by 
this body than Prime Minister Blair. For over a decade, he has proven 
to be a tremendous friend and ally of the United States, and we simply 
cannot say anything today that would adequately honor the contribution 
he has made to his country, to our country and to the cause of freedom 
throughout the globe.

And we know he has not made this great contribution without 
significant sacrifice. We have watched him at times endure an enormous 
amount of criticism and personal attack for the principled positions he 
has taken. But Tony Blair has steadfastly demonstrated what true 
leadership is. It does not always entail easy or popular choices. It 
does not always elicit cheers of support. Leadership in the 21st 
century, as we have come to realize, will often mean taking a very 
difficult stand against the enemies of freedom.

I believe that history will regard this principled leadership very 
highly. And as Mr. King's resolution highlights, this leadership has 
been exemplified throughout Tony Blair's entire tenure as Prime 
Minister. By brokering the Good Friday Agreement, he has ushered in a 
new, peaceful era in Northern Ireland, bringing together all parties 
and giving them a critical role in their own government. He has been 
our close ally in every major conflict that we have faced together--
Bosnia, Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq.

He was the first foreign leader to visit Ground Zero after September 
11, 2001, and attended President Bush's address to the joint session of 
Congress 9 days after those tragic


attacks. And no other ally has contributed more forces to the global 
war on terror. The United States owes a great debt of gratitude to 
Prime Minister Blair and to the great people of his nation. We honor 
their sacrifices and their deep friendship.
