---
---

# IN HONOR OF PRIVATE FIRST CLASS CONRADO JAVIER JR.
## `f1fbbc6a297c1da9a02f58129aa6df74`
`Mr. FARR — 22 December 2010`

---


Mr. FARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of a young, 
brave soldier who was killed in Afghanistan on Sunday, December 19, 
2010. Private First Class Conrado Javier Jr. of Marina, California was 
only nineteen years old. It is with a heavy heart that I wish to offer 
my sincere condolences to the family of Conrado Javier Jr.

 Private First Class Conrado Javier Jr. served in the United States 
Army and was assigned to the 3rd Squadron, 2nd Stryker Cavalry Regiment 
based in Vilseck, Germany. He was serving a tour in Afghanistan 
supporting Operation Enduring Freedom. On Sunday, December 19, 2010, in 
the Kandahar province of Afghanistan, the vehicle he driving in struck 
an improvised explosive device. Pfc. Javier was unable to recover from 
his wounds sustained in the deadly explosion.

 Conrado Javier Jr. is the fifth service member from my district to 
pay the ultimate sacrifice while defending our country in Operation 
Enduring Freedom. Sadly, he is the youngest service member from my 
district to lose his life in Afghanistan. There are no words that can 
fill the far reaching potential of this young man. However, I have no 
doubt he touched many lives during his very short time on Earth and his 
life will continue through them.

 Conrado attended Seaside High School and was a member of the 
school's Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps. It is evident he was 
dedicated to serving his country and possessed the strengths of a 
leader. Some may say his strongest value was being a loyal friend, who 
put others before him.

 Madam Speaker, I rise today and ask for my colleagues to join me in 
honoring the life of Conrado Javier Jr. I extend the sincere 
condolences of the House to his mother, Julia Dominga Javier Diaz; his 
father, Conrado Javier; and the seven siblings he leaves behind. 
Private Javier, we salute you!
