# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `f20b3cbd0d942c1d0434466b7825dda7`
`Mr. COCHRAN â€” 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I wish to acknowledge Memorial Day, which 
provides us with an opportunity to take time out from our busy lives to 
remember and honor those men and women who have made the ultimate 
sacrifice to protect the United States and the liberties we hold dear.

Mississippians have a strong affinity for our national defense, with 
thousands of brave citizens volunteering to serve in the Armed Forces. 
We also understand that, unfortunately, we will lose loved ones as part 
of that dedication.

The very first Memorial Day, originally known as Decoration Day, was 
observed in 1868 by decorating the graves of Civil War soldiers, and 
since then Americans have set aside a time each year to honor their 
fallen heroes.

Columbus, MS, proudly claims to be the birthplace of this tradition, 
but Memorial Day wasn't officially established as a Federal holiday 
until 1971. In the nearly 234 years since we became an independent 
nation, Americans have fought in numerous wars, and many have given 
their lives in defense of the ideals that the United States represents.

As we gather this year to commemorate Memorial Day, we can reflect on 
all of the Mississippians who have perished protecting our Nation, 
whether in battles long ago or in the ongoing conflicts in Afghanistan 
and Iraq.

Since the start of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi 
Freedom almost 10 years ago, more than 70 members of the Armed Forces 
with close ties to Mississippi have died fighting in the wars in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. Since Memorial Day last year, nine Mississippi 
soldiers have died while serving the American people. Those valiant men 
include LCpl. Phillip P. Clark, 19, of Brandon, died May 18, 2010; SGT 
Anthony O. Magee, 29, of Hattiesburg, died April 27, 2010; Army PFC 
Anthony Blount, 21, of Petal, died April 7, 2010; SSG William S. 
Ricketts, 27, of Corinth, died Feb 27, 2010; SFC Christopher D. Shaw, 
26, of Natchez, died Sept. 29, 2009; SGT Matthew L. Ingram, 25, of 
Newton, died Aug. 21, 2009; and SFC Alejandro Granado, 42, of Fairfax, 
Va., died Aug. 2, 2009. Mississippi Guard; SFC Severin W. Summers III, 
43, of Bentonia, died Aug. 2, 2009; and Army SSG Johnny Roosevelt Polk, 
39, of Gulfport, died July 31, 2009.

I honor them, and my heart goes out to the families of all the brave 
Mississippi men and women in uniform who have died for our country. It 
is the endless support of families that motivates our service men and 
women to carry out their duties, and their dedication must not be 
forgotten this Memorial Day.

Congress is working diligently to provide our troops in Afghanistan 
with the funds necessary to finish the job and come home safely. I 
understand the necessity of matching our soldiers' readiness with the 
means to complete their mission, and I am confident that the entire 
Mississippi delegation and Congress continue to take that duty very 
seriously.

As a veteran of the U.S. Navy, I am particularly thankful for the 
bravery and dedication of those who have fought and died for our 
country in our defense. We are blessed to live in a country that 
protects its citizens with such a fine, fighting force.

This Memorial Day, I encourage everyone to take a moment to remember 
the courageous American soldiers who have given their lives for our 
Nation and to thank their families. Our fallen warriors are true 
heroes, and we owe them our solemn gratitude for their service and 
sacrifice.
