---
---

# TRIBUTES TO SENATORS
## `f216d5035df909b41862e02623458261`
`Ms. SNOWE — 12 December 2008`

---

 Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, I rise to express my enormous 
gratitude and deep appreciation to my good friend and colleague, 
Senator Chuck Hagel, for his 12 years of sterling leadership and 
steadfast service in the U.S. Senate.

A man of deep-seated principle, honor, conscience, and conviction, 
Senator Hagel has been a stalwart legislator and an unwavering guardian 
of the first branch of government during his remarkable two-term tenure 
in the Senate. And, having served with Chuck side-by-side for that 
entire period--including, in the 107th Congress on the Senate Committee 
on the Budget, and subsequently for the remaining three Congresses on 
the Senate Committee on Intelligence--I can attest firsthand to the 
tremendous intellect, independence, and integrity that he has brought 
to his office and to some of the most consequential debates of our 
time.

Anyone familiar with Senator Hagel's background will notice readily 
how a fourth generation Nebraskan steeped in the time-honored 
traditions and mores of the heartland was well-equipped with the 
bedrock character and unshakable foundation necessary to reach the 
highest heights in both the public and private sector. Whether serving 
as President Reagan's Deputy Administrator of the Veterans' 
Administration, demonstrating keen entrepreneurial acumen as an early 
leader in the cellphone industry, heading the World USO, or eventually 
running successfully for the U.S. Senate from Nebraska, the common 
denominator, time and again, pervading Senator Hagel's life--and what 
has shaped his renowned trajectory of accomplishment in every 
undertaking he has pursued--has been his unwavering love for his 
country and abiding faith in its founding principles.

Nowhere was Senator Hagel's devotion to our Nation more paramount


than when his country called on him to serve in Vietnam, where he and 
his brother Tom, having bravely enlisted together, fought shoulder-to-
shoulder as infantry squad leaders with the U.S. Army's 9th Infantry 
Division. Both displayed enormous heroism on the field of battle and 
were decorated soldiers, with Chuck earning two Purple Hearts.

As you can imagine, it has been a privilege over these past 12 years 
to witness the courage and candor of this American hero and esteemed 
colleague, whether on measures addressing war, specifically in Iraq, or 
matters concerning the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, FISA. 
Senator Hagel was indeed my compatriot and ideological soul mate on the 
Senate Intelligence Committee. If you must go into battle whether in 
war or in politics, you want to engage your opponents with someone of 
Chuck Hagel's mettle and fortitude.

A true conservative who believes in limited government--and that the 
diffusion of power and authority are the surest check against despotism 
and the best hope for democracy--Senator Hagel has demonstrated a 
visceral and unending passion for this institution and for the 
possibilities of effective governance by people of good will. And 
Senator Hagel crystallized this deeply held belief in his farewell 
speech on the floor of the Senate when he emphasized to his colleagues 
that . . .




 Article I of the constitution is about the Congress. We are 


 a co-equal branch of government. And if anything I've learned 


 in the 12 years I've been here is the importance of sharing, 


 participating in the governance of our country, being part of 


 that governance, helping make decisions with the president 


 and the executive.


Finally, as a Mainer, I must say how fitting it was that a few years 
ago Senator Hagel was recognized as one of the esteemed recipients of 
The Edmund S. Muskie Distinguished Public Service Award. Senator Hagel 
exemplifies the best of the Muskie tradition which was built upon 
certain irrefutable, sterling standards for high intellect, 
unassailable integrity, and a lifetime of legendary service.

To his wife Lilibet and their daughter Allyn and son Ziller, thank 
you for sharing your husband and your father with us for these 12 
years. And to Chuck, we will miss your voice and your vision. By your 
words and in your deeds, you bring to mind the Greek playwright and 
poet, Aeschylus, who wrote that ''his resolve is not to seem the 
bravest, but to be.'' You have been a brave steward of the public 
trust, and we are forever thankful.

















Wayne Allard
