---
---

# UNRESOLVED ISSUES
## `f21c663b1d9fce8cbf3a84440acad48d`
`Mr. DORGAN — 2 December 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, I wanted to take some time today to talk 
about some issues that have been around for a number of years and 
remain unresolved in a way that I believe is very detrimental to our 
country and our citizens.

There is a lot of discussion these days about deficits and debt at 
the Federal level. We have a $13 trillion Federal debt and a $1.3 
trillion deficit this year. We have a fiscal policy that is in great 
difficulty. The discussion these days is about extending tax cuts--by 
the way, none of which is anticipated in the budget numbers that are 
already unsustainable, showing large debts for the long term. Extending 
all of the tax cuts that were scheduled to expire this year will add $4 
trillion to the $13 trillion debt that already exists. The reason I 
mention the fiscal policy issue is, when we talk about debt and 
deficits, most people talk about the need to cut spending. We also need 
some additional revenue from those who are not paying their share. But 
we do need to cut spending.

I believe I have held 21 hearings as chairman of the Democratic 
Policy Committee over recent years--21 separate hearings on the subject 
of waste, fraud, and abuse in contracting in the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Much of it still goes on in terms of the work with the 
Pentagon on this contracting issue.

I have just received a letter from the inspector general at the 
Pentagon, who is looking into one of the issues of the last hearings--
the issue of soldiers and contractors who were exposed to sodium 
dichromate, a chemical that was the subject of the movie ''Erin 
Brockovich,'' soldiers who were exposed and not told they were exposed 
to that deadly carcinogen and some of whom have already died. They were 
both National Guard and Regular Army soldiers.

In the context of doing a lot of these hearings, I have discovered 
and I believe that throughout the last decade, we have seen the 
greatest waste and fraud and abuse in the history of this country. It 
has contributed immeasurably to this overspending and deficits and 
debt. I wanted to talk about that work we did, myself and my 
colleagues, over 21 separate hearings.

At one of the hearings we held, we had testimony from a man who, in 
Iraq, was responsible for rooting out corruption in the Iraqi 
Government. His name was Judge al-Radhi. I have a photograph of Judge 
al-Radhi. He testified in this country. He testified that in his work 
as head of the anticorruption unit in Iraq, he found that $18 billion 
was missing, most of it American money, most of it coming from the 
American taxpayer.

Just missing. Now, why was he here in the country testifying at a 
hearing I held? Because he got booted out of Iraq, and he got no 
support from the U.S. Government as he was booted out of Iraq, and he 
ended up in this country. But he is the person who was supposed to be 
rooting out and investigating and prosecuting waste and fraud and 
abuse.

His investigations and the investigations of his staff--some of whom 
were assassinated, some of whose families were killed--show there was 
$18 billion--$18 billion--missing, and most of it was American money. 
Well, that is the story about Judge al-Radhi.

We had a hearing early on in this process and talked about the issue 
of contractors and contracting. As you know, in the early part of the 
war in Iraq and in Afghanistan, money was just shoved out the back door 
of the Pentagon, hiring contractors, very large contracts, in most 
cases no-bid, sole-source contracts.

A very courageous woman came to testify before our committee. Her 
name was Bunnatine Greenhouse. She was the highest civilian official at 
the Army Corps of Engineers, the highest civilian official in the 
Pentagon in charge of contracting. Here is what she said. She objected 
to the way the Pentagon was doing these contracts, massive contracts, 
sole-source, a massive amount of money, and she watched as the normal 
processes were avoided and ignored. She testified in public:




 I can unequivocally state that the abuse related to 


 contracts awarded to Kellogg, Brown & Root represents the 


 most blatant and improper contract abuse I have witnessed 


 during the course of my professional career.


This is an extraordinary woman, the highest civilian person in the 
Army Corps of Engineers. She was in charge of contracting. Two master's 
degrees, came from a family in Louisiana. All three kids have advanced 
degrees. Her brother, by the way, was one of the 50 top professional 
basketball players in the last century, Elvin Hayes. Bunnatine 
Greenhouse. Remember that name. A very courageous woman, she saw 
abuses, spoke about it publicly, and for that she lost her career. She 
gave up her career. She was told: Resign or be fired.

Let me talk about what she meant when she said the most unbelievable 
abuses she had seen in contracting. I want to do it starting small 
because then I am going to talk about billions of dollars.

But at one of our hearings, we had a man who kind of looked like a 
bookkeeper at a John Deere dealership in a


small town. He was kind of a good old guy with glasses, and he had been 
in charge of purchasing for Kellogg, Brown & Root or Halliburton over 
in Kuwait, purchasing the things our troops needed in Iraq. He came and 
testified, and he said: You know, as I was purchasing things, I was 
told by my employer, Halliburton: Don't worry what the cost is, the 
taxpayer pays for this. This is cost-plus.

So he told us a number of examples, big examples, but he brought a 
small one that I thought reflected the entire attitude.

This is a towel. I ask unanimous consent to show the towel on the 
floor of the Senate.