---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `f226c5d363eeda4e6358282a74fbae89`
`Mr. ROSS — 22 January 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening on behalf of the 44-member 
fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition. Each week we come 
to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to discuss with you 
and the people of this Congress, Mr. Speaker, about the need to restore 
fiscal discipline and common sense to our national government.

We speak of the need for accountability. Why? Because today the U.S. 
national debt is $8,710,232,192,210; and, we ran out of room on the 
poster, but if you want to be exact about it, 43 cents. And for every 
man, woman, and child living in America today, their share of the 
national debt as of tonight is $29,061.20. It is what those of us in


the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition refer to as the debt tax, 
D-E-B-T, which is one tax that will never go away until we get our 
fiscal house in order.

Mr. Speaker, as you walk the halls of Congress, it is easy to detect 
when you are walking by an office of a fellow Blue Dog member, because 
you will see this poster reminding Members of Congress and reminding 
the American people of the fiscal recklessness that we have witnessed 
all across this Nation for the past 6 years. The American people have 
spoken, the American people have given the Democrats an opportunity to 
lead this Chamber, and we are determined as members of the fiscally 
conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition to getting our Nation's 
fiscal house in order and restoring fiscal discipline and common sense 
to our national government.

The Blue Dog Coalition is about accountability. And, Mr. Speaker, 
tomorrow, on Tuesday, many members of the Blue Dog Coalition will be 
filing a resolution for the 110th Congress, a resolution providing for 
Operation Iraqi Freedom cost accountability. I want to thank the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Patrick Murphy) for his work on this, 
a veteran of the Iraqi war who will be joining us later this evening on 
the floor.

This evening, as members of the Blue Dog Coalition, we plan to talk 
about providing for Operation Iraqi Freedom cost accountability. You 
ask people what they think about this postwar Iraq policy, you ask 100 
people, you get 100 different ideas about how we ought to do it. One 
thing is for sure, everybody believes that we need to move in a new 
direction.

But, Mr. Speaker, one of the things that really makes me proud to be 
an American is that, unlike Vietnam, and I believe one of the painful 
lessons to come out of Vietnam is this time, this time at least, we are 
getting the support for soldier part of this right, because I see us 
all, not as Democrats and Republicans, but as Americans first. And what 
I have witnessed this time around has been truly amazing and has made 
me proud to be an American, and that is that everyone, regardless of 
how they feel about the war in Iraq, regardless of whether they are a 
Democrat or a Republican, everyone in America for the most part has 
stood united in support of our men and women in uniform.

I couldn't help but notice the plane I was on today from Little Rock 
to Atlanta had about a half dozen soldiers heading to Iraq, and I had 
the opportunity to shake their hand and thank them for their service to 
our country. I noticed others doing the same when I was changing planes 
in Atlanta. There were a lot of soldiers today in Atlanta headed for 
Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, personally I am opposed to this surge. I think that is 
not a new direction, I think it is more of the same. But as members of 
the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, we didn't take 
a position on that because everyone needs to represent the views of 
their district, and everyone needs to speak from their heart.

We have approached this, Mr. Speaker, from an accountability 
standpoint. And, Mr. Speaker, I would like to read to you this 
resolution so you will know exactly what is in it, and you will know 
exactly what the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition 
stands for and what we are talking about, and then a number of Blue Dog 
fellow members will be joining me in this Special Order to discuss 
various aspects of this.

But resolution providing for Operation Iraqi Freedom cost 
accountability says:

Whereas it has been nearly 4 years since Operation Iraqi Freedom 
began;

Whereas our military personnel have performed with honor and bravery, 
and deserve the support of all Americans;

Whereas more than 3,000 American military personnel have been killed 
in Operation Iraqi Freedom and more than 20,000 have been injured;

Whereas the United States has spent nearly $400 billion in support of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom;

Whereas the United States has spent tens of billions of dollars 
paying private contractors for services performed in Operation Iraqi 
Freedom;

Whereas government investigations and media reports have detailed 
waste, fraud, and possible war profiteering by some of these 
contractors;

Whereas American taxpayers deserve a detailed cost accounting for 
funds spent in Operation Iraqi Freedom;

Whereas instead of the normal budgetary process, the administration 
has used emergency supplemental appropriation bills to fund Operation 
Iraqi Freedom;

Whereas the normal appropriations process gives Congress greater 
oversight concerning both the need for and use of budgeted funds;

Whereas the annual need to budget substantial funding for Operation 
Iraqi Freedom is not unanticipated within the meaning of section 502 of 
the fiscal year 2007 budget resolution, and further funding for 
Operation Iraqi Freedom should be attained through the normal budgeting 
process;

Whereas since coalition forces removed Saddam Hussein from power, 
success in Operation Iraqi Freedom has depended upon an active and 
effective partnership between coalition forces and the Government and 
people of Iraq, a partnership that provides indispensable leverage to 
the coalition's financial, military, and political investments;

Whereas Iraqis must assume principal responsibility for internally 
policing Iraq, failing which past, present, and future coalition 
investments will not lead to security in Iraq and Iraq will dissolve in 
chaos.

Let me read that again: Whereas Iraqis must assume principal 
responsibility for internally policing Iraq, failing which past, 
present, and future coalition investments will not lead to security in 
Iraq and Iraq will dissolve in chaos. In other words, we are in this 
together, and it is time for the Iraqi people to step up to the plate 
and assume more accountability and responsibility for the internal 
policing of Iraq.

Now, therefore, be it resolved that; and this is what the Blue Dog 
Coalition's accountability measure is about: Within 30 days after the 
adoption of this resolution, and every 90 days thereafter, the 
Department of Defense Inspector General and the Special Inspector 
General for Iraq Reconstruction shall prepare and transmit to Congress 
an unclassified report, but with a classified annex if necessary, that 
would contain:

Number 1. A detailed accounting of how military and reconstruction 
funds in Iraq have been spent thus far; $400 billion of tax money from 
the hardworking people of America has gone to Iraq, and they deserve to 
know how that money has been spent in support of our men and women in 
uniform in support of this new Iraqi Government;

Number 2. A detailed accounting of the types and terms of contracts 
awarded on behalf of the United States, including the methods by which 
such contracts were awarded and contractors selected;

Our cities and counties all across this Nation are expected to 
advertise for bids and award bids based on the lowest bid they receive 
for services rendered for what they are looking for. Our Federal 
Government should not be any different.

Number 3. A description of the efforts to obtain support and 
assistance from other countries toward the rehabilitation of Iraq;

And, number 4. An assessment of what additional funding is needed to 
complete military operations and reconstruction efforts in Iraq, 
including a plan for security of Iraq, a detailed plan for how any 
future funds will be spent, and a statement of how those funds will 
advance the interests of the United States in Iraq.

That is one point.

The second point:

If either Inspector General fails to submit a quarterly report, the 
Government Accountability Office shall conduct an audit and report to 
Congress.

Sanctions shall be imposed against contractors who have engaged in 
fraud or abuse or war profiteering.

Congress should create a Truman Committee to conduct an ongoing study 
and investigation of the awarding and carrying out of contracts by the 
United States to conduct activities with regard to Operation Iraqi 
Freedom, and make such recommendations to the House as the select 
committee deems appropriate.

Funding requests for Operation Iraqi Freedom in fiscal year 2008 and 
beyond must come through the regular appropriations process, and not 
through so-called emergency supplementals.



No more hiding the cost of the war.

In furtherance of the partnership that is critical to success in 
Operation Iraqi Freedom, the administration should firmly condition 
further American financial, military, and political resources upon 
steady improvement in Iraqi assumption of principal responsibility for 
internally policing Iraq.



That is the resolution that many members of the Blue Dog Coalition 
will be filing, a resolution endorsed by the 44-member strong, fiscally 
conservative Blue Dog Coalition, with the Clerk of the House on Tuesday 
or Wednesday of this week. I just read it in detail, word by word, so 
the American people, Mr. Speaker, will know exactly what it is that we 
are offering up.

It is not complicated. It is not partisan. It is not about whether we 
should or should not be in Iraq and about whether we should or should 
not leave tonight or tomorrow, next month or next year. It is about 
being accountable for the $400 billion that has already been spent in 
Iraq, and God knows how much more will be spent in Iraq, and the 
American people, the hardworking people of this country that get up, go 
to work, work hard and pay taxes, deserve to know and have a full 
accounting for how their money is being spent in Iraq.

That is what this resolution is all about. It is what the Blue Dog 
Coalition is all about. It is about standing for responsibility, 
transparency and accountability and in getting our Nation's fiscal 
house in order so we can see this number, Mr. Speaker, the national 
debt, begin to trend downward, because as long as we are spending a 
half a billion dollars a day paying interest on the debt we have 
already got, before we increase it another billion dollars a day, many 
of America's priorities will continue to go unmet.

We have got to get our fiscal house in order because, you know what, 
coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan and other parts of the world is a 
whole new generation of veterans. It is our duty in these United States 
to be there in support of our veterans, to be there in support of our 
men and women in uniform, regardless of whether they are serving us in 
Iraq, Afghanistan or elsewhere across the globe.

We can have differences of opinion with the President on Iraq and his 
Iraq policy, but what makes me proud to be an American is that we are 
standing together in support of our men and women in uniform.

Mr. Speaker, we have got a number of folks that have joined me this 
evening to talk about accountability in this Iraq War, and at this 
time, I yield to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Scott).