---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `f2329f109eaa19a149bb949311fe86d3`
`Mr. POE of Texas — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. POE of Texas. This is about our troops. This is about Americans 
who have been willing to protect the rest of us when duty calls and in 
time of war. Army Specialist Jarrett Griemel was one of those noble 
Americans. He was a patriot. He joined the United States Army right out 
of high school. He had completed basic training before he graduated 
from high school in his junior year at La Porte High School in Texas. 
In 2008, Jarrett married his high school sweetheart, Candice, in a 
small ceremony before the justice of the peace. She joined him in 
Alaska, where he was deployed by the Army, to begin their young married 
lives together. He was a petroleum supply specialist assigned to the 
425th Brigade Special Troops Battalion, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th 
Infantry Division Battalion.

Last June, Jarrett was killed at the age of 20 years in Afghanistan. 
This is his photograph. He is on this board--the board with 27 other 
Texans from our congressional district area. He is the latest to have 
been killed in Iraq or Afghanistan as a volunteer to go overseas and 
protect the rest of us in time of war. He believed in protecting our 
country. He believed in it so much he was willing to leave his wife and 
go halfway around the world to fight an enemy on the enemy's own turf. 
And he believed in it so much that he was willing to give his life for 
the rest of us. So if we pass this resolution, what message do we send 
to Jarrett's family or Jarrett's young bride--that his sacrifice just 
wasn't enough? That it was all for naught?

We don't quit war because war is hard. War has always been hard. 
Every good thing this country has ever achieved has been hard. We don't 
quit and run because it is difficult. We stay because we believe, like 
Jarrett, that the fight against an enemy that is bent on our 
destruction is worth it. That is the reason these other 27 from all 
races and both sexes fought in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Last December, I had the privilege to go to Afghanistan and meet 
Americans like Jarrett and these others who are risking their lives for 
us here at home. They told me that they missed their families, they 
missed their kids, but also they believe the work they're doing is 
worth it, and they're eager to finish the job and get back home. They 
continue to fight, and fight hard, and they want success. And we must 
remember, Mr. Speaker, they're all volunteers. America's finest.

General McChrystal's new strategy is effective and already leading to 
key victories. It makes no sense to all of a sudden pick up and leave 
when we're the ones winning this war and the enemy is receiving 
crushing blow after crushing blow. We cannot pull the rug out from 
underneath our troops. Of course, al Qaeda and the Taliban would say, I 
told you so. The Americans, they just don't have the stomach for war. 
They would once again, these enemies of the world, creep back into the 
seats of power and darkness and would turn their countries back a 
thousand years. Women would once again not be allowed to go to school, 
political dissidents would be murdered, and Afghanistan would once 
again become a safe haven for terrorists to plot and plan their next 
attacks against people they don't like throughout the world, including 
Americans. All Americans would be in danger.

War is hard. The cut-and-run crowd do not understand if we retreat 
unilaterally and quit this war, the war will not be over, because our 
enemies will continue the war against us whether we continue against 
them or not. Our troops would return home with one question: Why? Why 
would you bring us home when victory was so close? Why did we fight so 
hard, make so many sacrifices, only to have those that believe in peace 
at any price say it's time to quit?

Now is not the time to retreat. This enemy is real. It must be 
defeated. This is not about the politics of fear with some hypothetical 
enemy but assessing reality and supporting these men and women and 
others that are over there and protecting our home from terrorists that 
want nothing more than to destroy us wherever they find us in the 
world. Past successes don't guarantee future success. Victory is close, 
but we have not obtained it yet. Abandonment and retreat--those are not 
strategies. We stay because it's in our interest to stay and secure a 
victory against the enemies of the world.

General Petraeus said, ''We've got to show that we are in this; that 
we are going to provide sustained, substantial commitment.'' Make no 
mistake about it, Mr. Speaker, the troops and their families are 
watching this debate today to see what we shall do here in Congress. 
They are looking for who will support them and who will not. We must 
defeat this resolution and the Taliban and the al Qaeda and support our 
military.



Last Saturday, March 6, was the 174th anniversary of the battle at 
the Alamo where those people walked across that line rather than give 
in to the enemy.