---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `f234b6ec2239a08202ed466e2cc9055a`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 22 May 2008`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Good morning, Mr. President.

Today I take the floor as the chairperson of the Subcommittee on 
Commerce, Justice, and Science of the Appropriations Committee.

We bring to the Senate for its consideration an element within the 
domestic spending that I urge my colleagues to support. It provides 
critical funding to protect America from threats abroad and those 
threats here at home and to invest in America's future. There are those 
that meet compelling human needs right here in the United States of 
America. They also deal with the incompetency of the Bush 
administration to truly estimate the cost of the war.

Today I am asking for support because in protecting America this 
subcommittee adds funds to the FBI. We add $313 million for the 
Department of Justice, for both the FBI and DEA and the work they need 
to do in Afghanistan and in Iraq.

Once again, we have underestimated greatly the cost of this war. But 
we are not going to neglect our duty. This subcommittee provides $23 
million to the Drug Enforcement Agency to fight narcoterrorism in 
Afghanistan, to fight the poppy trade that funds terrorism. Athough the 
cost was underestimated, we are going to make sure we are going to do 
our duty to put those DEA agents next to the Afghan leadership to fight 
this narcoterrorism.

Then, at the same time, we are going to have FBI agents in the war 
zone gathering intelligence on terrorists, dealing with IEDs and some 
of the forensic issues there, and we have provided money for them to be 
able to do this. Once again, they underestimated what it would take 
because there is very important work the FBI needs to do so our 
military is freed up in fighting the war. We fight the war against 
those who are trying to kill us with IEDs.

But while we are doing that, and we are trying to keep Afghanistan 
and Iraq safe, we added to this bill money for people here at home. 
What we did was we added $50 million to the U.S. Marshals' funds to 
catch fugitive sex offenders who threaten the safety of our children 
and our communities--$50 million more, which was authorized under the 
Adam Walsh legislation, the bill to be able to fund the Marshals 
Service to go after those sexual offenders for we know who they are, we 
know what they have done, and we know they are loose in our society. It 
is the Marshals Service that has both the authority and the know-how to 
do that. If we want to make the streets safe abroad, I certainly want 
to protect the children of the United States of America against these 
sexual predators.

Then, we also added, at the request of over 55 Senators, on a 
bipartisan basis, $490 million for Byrne formula grants for State and 
local police. We know there is a spike in violent crime all over the 
United States of America. The best way to fight violent crime is to 
make sure our local law enforcement has the tools they need to do their 
job. Therefore, we want the streets of Boston and Baltimore and 
Tuscaloosa to be as safe as we are fighting to make the streets safe in 
Afghanistan.

We are also working to deal with disaster recovery. In some States 
there are fishery disasters, such as in the gulf region, in New 
England, and the Pacific Northwest with its salmon constraints. We have 
added money to deal with the fisheries disaster. We also added a 
particular item for Byrne grants for the gulf region to address and 
deal with violent crime.

We are trying to deal with the fact that our own American citizens 
are facing disasters that so adversely affect either public safety or 
their very livelihoods.

Then, last but not at all least, we clean up the administration's 
mess. The census is on the verge of a boondoggle. There has been a 
technical meltdown in their ability to do the census. The so-called 
handheld devices that were going to be used to do the census in a new 
and data-driven way have not worked out. Who knows? The Secretary of 
Commerce is investigating it. But I am telling you now, it is going to 
cost $2 billion to fix it--$2 billion as in ''Barb,'' not $2 million as 
in ''Mikulski.'' So we are going to clean up the mess of the 
administration. In this supplemental, we put a downpayment of $210 
million so we meet our constitutional responsibility to do this. I 
regret that the incompetency--the failure to stand sentry on taking the 
census, when they had 10 years to get ready for it, is indeed 
frustrating.

Then we come to another issue on prisons. Because of the inadequate 
budget request from the President, we are facing a violent undercurrent 
in prisons and terrible understaffing. We add the money, though the 
administration would not request it through its OMB. But all of the 
people who work at Justice who deal with this say this is a dire 
emergency, not to protect the prison but to protect the prison workers 
from dealing with this.

Then, also, what we did add was money for science, particularly for 
the space program, because when Columbia went down, they took the money 
for return-to-flight from other agencies. This returns it so we can 
keep our NASA on track.

That is what the CJS Subcommittee did, and I think we have done a 
good job. We tried to act to meet the needs in fighting the global war 
against terrorism. We dealt with the incompetency of underestimating 
the cost to these agencies because of the war. We are dealing with the 
incompetencies of either poor budget requests or the census boondoggle.

I think we have done a good job. I am asking my colleagues to support 
this legislation because if you want to protect our streets--if we need 
to help our people with their own disasters, and meet our 
constitutional responsibilities--you want to vote for my part from my 
subcommittee.

The other part that is in this bill, which will come at a later time, 
is that for which in the full Appropriations markup I offered an 
amendment to extend current law on something called H-2B. That is a 
seasonal guest worker program that has helped coastal States with being 
able to hire people, as well as the hospitality industry.


My amendment was a very simple amendment. All it did was extend 
current law that expired September 30. There was no new law. We broke 
no new ground. We created no new legislative framework. We created no 
new rights or privileges. It did three things. It lifted--it 
essentially gave a waiver on the cap of 66,000 people who currently 
come in.

What does all this mean in plain English? It means we were doing 
three things: first, protecting American borders; second, protecting 
American jobs; and third, rewarding the people who go by the rules. We 
protected American borders because we had a system that worked. People 
came, they worked, they went back home. Second, it protected American 
jobs because it was seasonal employment in industries that, in my 
State, particularly in the seafood industry, keeps businesses going 
that have been around for over 100 years. Then it rewarded the good 
guys, those people who are American employers who want to go by the 
rules--did not want to hire illegal aliens. But now we are going to 
poke them in the eye. It also rewarded the Latinos who came from 
Mexico--and I met with the madras down in my own State who often come 
from the same villages every year and return home.

Well, my amendment extended law. I know that my colleague--there will 
be a colleague who will raise the point of order today, and my 
amendment will


go down because it is not germane. I just wish to say this: It might 
not be germane, but it is relevant. Maybe it is not technically 
germane, but it is relevant because we are doing legislation to deal 
with the supplemental on compelling needs that our people face. That is 
why I want to get the sexual predators off the street.

I asked for 3 additional minutes. I am about to lose thousands of 
jobs because of this point of order.