# HONORING THE SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF UNITED STATES ARMY SERGEANT  MARTIN A. LUGO, JR.
## `f2375a78e4dc0d23aa2b50b8c8653a86`
`Ms. GIFFORDS â€” 15 September 2010`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor United States Army 
Sergeant Martin A. Lugo, Jr., who was killed in action on August 19, 
2010.

A native of Tucson, Arizona, Martin graduated from Tucson High Magnet 
School in 2004 and enlisted in the Army shortly thereafter. Martin, a 
decorated combat veteran and graduate of the U.S. Army's Ranger School, 
re-enlisted in February 2010. He was on his 6th combat deployment and 
4th to Afghanistan, when he was killed by small arms fire in Logar 
Province, near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Martin was assigned to 
Company C, 1st Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment. Among his many 
decorations, he earned the Bronze Star, Meritorious Service Medal and 
Purple Heart. He was one of our nation's most elite, best and bravest.

We remember Martin and offer our deepest condolences and sincerest 
prayers to his family. My words cannot effectively convey the


feeling of great loss nor can they offer adequate consolation. However, 
it is my hope that in future days, his family may take some comfort in 
knowing that Martin made a difference in the lives of many others and 
serves as an example of a competent and caring leader and friend that 
will live on in the hearts and minds of all those he touched.

This body and this country owe Martin and his family a debt of 
gratitude and it is vital that we remember him and his service to his 
country.

Sergeant Lugo is survived by his mother, Maria; father, Martin; and 
sister, Leslie.
