# HONORING THE SACRIFICES AND CONTRIBUTIONS MADE BY DISABLED AMERICAN  VETERANS
## `f23e3dec49f9cadc8a3739094d1dea8b`
`Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida — 10 June 2008`

---


Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.

With House Concurrent Resolution 336, we honor the sacrifices and 
contributions made of our disabled veterans. The current wars in Iraq 
and Afghanistan have added well over 30,000 of our sons and daughters 
to the roles of veterans disabled in defense of our Nation, with the 
number continuing to grow.

Collectively, there are approximately 2.8 million veterans receiving 
compensation for disability incurred in the line of duty. This 
resolution calls for the establishment of a single week dedicated 
annually to each and every one of our Nation's disabled veterans.

What better time would there be for groups large and small, national 
and local, private and public, to come together and remember in their 
own way the sacrifices of the Nation's heroes? Those great Americans 
gave the most for the least. They have earned our lasting remembrance 
and much more.

It is far too easy for many to forget the true costs of war, to 
forget the deaths of our servicemen and to ignore the wounds of those 
who return. It is too easy for too many of us to think that the cost of 
war ends when the last soldier returns.

Our disabled veterans continue to serve our country in so many ways, 
bearing their wounds as a reminder to all that freedom and liberty are 
not free. The men and women who return wounded and disabled from 
combat, and service to our Nation, remind us of the terrible price we 
pay, not only in costs measured in dollars, but the costs measured in 
lives lost and changed.

It is therefore right and proper that we remember the service and 
sacrifice of our disabled veterans and pay tribute and honor to them 
during this week of Disabled American Veterans Week.

When called, they answered. When needed, they served. All Americans 
owe them a debt of gratitude and a heartfelt remembrance for their 
sacrifice and service. I am reminded of the words of the first 
President of the United States, George Washington, whose words are 
worth repeating at this time. ''The willingness with which our people 
are likely to serve in any war, no matter how justified, shall be 
directly proportioned as to how they perceive the veterans of earlier 
wars were treated and appreciated by their country.''

It is part of my service and duties to visit the veterans' hospitals 
and clinics


in the areas I travel to. I recently visited the medical center in 
Puerto Rico, dedicated a new clinic in Orange City, Florida, and, 
before that, the Medical Center in New Orleans.

We have been funding the VA and veterans health care at record 
levels, giving the VA the largest increase in funding in the history of 
the United States. It is our duty to oversee the VA to make sure that 
they are spending the money properly in the best interests of our brave 
men and women who defend the rights and freedom of our great Nation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.