---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE OF STAFF SERGEANT ADAM L. DICKMYER
## `f241329431b1d7dd7c2fc71610a72a47`
`Ms. FOXX — 16 November 2010`

---


Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, today I rise in solemn remembrance of the 
life of a fallen hero, Staff Sergeant Adam L. Dickmyer who grew up in 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Staff Sergeant Dickmyer was killed while 
serving his country in Afghanistan on October 28 when insurgents 
attacked his unit with an improvised explosive device near Kandahar.

Staff Sergeant Dickmyer was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 502nd 
Infantry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, Fort Campbell, Kentucky. 
From 2003 until 2009, he served at the Tomb of the Unknowns in 
Arlington National Cemetery. Only 15 percent of those who try out for 
the honored, precision assignment are chosen, and some consider it the 
most prestigious duty of the military. Staff Sergeant Dickmyer led the 
changing of the guards, a ceremony he performed every half-hour with 
precision. The soldiers carry out their duties 24 hours a day, 7 days a 
week, 365 days a year, no matter the conditions. He was deployed to 
Afghanistan in June after volunteering to go.

Staff Sergeant Dickmyer graduated from Carver High School where he 
participated in the award-winning ROTC drill team. This selfless 
American patriot, who paid the heaviest price for his country, will be 
remembered forever as a young man who was a leader and loved by many. 
His tragic death in the line of duty is an irreplaceable loss for his 
family and friends, his community, and his country.

Today we mourn with those who mourn, and we pay tribute to and honor 
this soldier and his inspiring life which was cut short while he was 
serving his country. His country owes him an immeasurable debt of 
gratitude for his service and his great sacrifice on the battlefield. 
May God's peace be with Staff Sergeant Dickmyer's family, friends, and 
all those who continue to mourn his death and remember his life.
