---
---

# None
## `f24baaba017194815c4d6cf9a7d3783f`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 20 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Meek, I can't match your level of 
articulateness, but I think you are saying what people feel out there. 
I mean, this election had to mean something. I mean, people spoke, they 
went out there in numbers in parts of the country that we haven't seen 
in a long time. And they spoke with a pretty loud voice that they 
wanted a different course of direction in Iraq.

Now let me read something somebody said a few years ago in 1997. Mr. 
Ryan, when he was joining us here, talked about the fact that there is 
a little bit of double talk this week from folks on the other side of 
the aisle, this idea that Congress really needs to back off and let the 
President do his business. Well, that wasn't the line coming out of 
here in 1997, when Congress thought something very different about the 
oversight responsibility of this body when it came to the effort in 
Bosnia.

The chairman of the Armed Services Committee at that time was a 
gentleman named Floyd Spence from South Carolina. Here is what he said. 
This is his floor statement supporting the bill that was going to 
withdraw funding essentially from the President's intervention in 
Bosnia. He said, today's vote will call for the withdrawal of U.S. 
ground troops from a peacekeeping operation of growing expense and 
seeming unending duration. Mr. Ryan already told us that if that was 
unending duration, well, then you haven't seen unending duration 
compared to this effort. He went on to say, the time is long overdue 
for Congress to express its will on behalf of the American people. It 
is important that the Clinton administration be held accountable for 
the Nation's foreign policy and, in this case, for Bosnia policy. Let 
me say it again. It is long overdue for Congress to express its will on 
behalf of the American people.

You know what? I agree. That is what we are sent here to do. We are 
sent to invoke on this floor the will of the American people. That is 
why we get elected every 2 years instead of every 6 years, because we 
are the body here, the House of Representatives, and I have only been 
here for a couple of months, but I have studied enough history to 
understand that my responsibility when I came here was to speak on 
behalf of my constituents. And my constituents and the constituents of 
those that sent new Members here in droves from all over the country, 
from the Midwest to South, the Sun Belt, the West and the Northeast, 
said, set a new course. Stand up to the President. Redeploy our forces 
for fights that still matter. Protect us at home. That is the will of 
the American people. That is what we are going to be talking about this 
week.

Mr. Meek, I think elections mean something. And I think what we are 
going to engage in on Thursday is an effort to put the will of the 
American people into practice here.

Now, it is not just the American people. We just saw a poll the other 
day that came out and asked specifically whether the American people 
would support Congress' plan to bring American forces back home and 
redeploy them to other fights across the globe that we can still win by 
the fall of 2008, the bill that we are about to vote on this week, and 
it wasn't even close. A margin of over 20 percent, 59 percent to 34 
percent of Americans support that plan. The American people said what 
they wanted on election day. And when pollsters went to just double-
check the temperature and make sure they still thought that, well, they 
still think that, in fact, probably in greater numbers than they did on 
election day, seeing that things have only gotten worse on the ground 
and the President's policy has only become more meandering.

But we don't just have to listen to the American people, because we 
can also listen to our foreign policy community. We put on that Iraq 
Study Group some of the brightest minds in American foreign policy. The 
folks that have set the direction for foreign policy coming out of 
Washington for years all got together, Republicans and Democrats, folks 
that probably hadn't agreed on much of anything if you were to poll 
them on other foreign conflicts. Well, they all came to an agreement, 
and they sent a report to us saying it is time to set a new direction, 
it is time to start redeploying forces in 2008.

We can also listen to our military leaders as well. And we have read 
a lot of quotes on this floor, so we won't belabor it, but just take 
one. The Deputy Commander of Multinational Forces in Iraq said it very 
simply: It's clear, you cannot solve this problem militarily. You have 
to do it with a combination of military, economic and diplomatic things 
that we have to do.

The American public, our foreign policy community, military leaders 
on the ground who see this on a day-to-day basis say the same thing: We 
have put our men and women in the middle of a civil war. We have done 
virtually nothing to address the underlying causes of that religious 
conflict. And to simply allow them to continue to be the referee in an 
increasingly bloody battle, that is not the right policy for our 
troops, it is not the right policy for this country, and it is time to 
start focusing on real security issues again.

Let me bring up one last thing, Mr. Meek, before I yield back, what 
is included in this bill. This isn't just about, you hear this word 
withdrawal,


this isn't about withdrawal. This is about focusing our efforts as a 
Nation on the fights that matter. We still have a real important 
conflict in Afghanistan. If we redirect some efforts there, we can 
still make a difference on the ground. Remember, that is where the 
people that attacked this country trained. That is where they base 
their operations. And if we are not careful, Afghanistan is going to 
fall right back into the hands of the folks who provided cover for so 
long to Osama bin Laden and his henchmen.


We also have to do a lot more here on the ground in our own country, 
Mr. Meek. Now, you voted for efforts on the Democratic minority for 
years to try to bring light upon the fact that we have been spending 
billions of dollars over in Iraq. We haven't been spending money here 
at home to do the things we need to do to protect this Nation.

So this bill is going to put $2.6 billion into homeland security 
needs, make sure that you and me and our families and our friends are 
protected here; $2.6 billion, Mr. Meek; $1.25 billion for aviation 
security, including 1 billion for a new explosive detection system, $90 
million to deploy advanced checkpoint explosive detection equipment and 
screening techniques, $160 million to do better when we are screening 
air cargo, $1.25 billion for new port and transit and border security 
features, $150 million for nuclear security, including, at the 
President's request, $67 million to secure the nuclear material in the 
former Soviet Union.

Here is where the fight is; it is in places like Afghanistan, it is 
at our ports, it is on our borders. That is the fight that we are going 
to engage in. That is where we are going to refocus our efforts.

This vote that is coming up this week is about doing just what the 
Republicans told us we were supposed to do in 1997; that is, expressing 
the will of the American people on this floor. This vote is about 
putting our forces, putting our money where the fights matter most.

Mr. Meek, I am going to be proud to be part of that this week when we 
finally get that chance to make the will of the American people the law 
of this country.