# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f25f9c2931ac4b1c8d81e21b54201a84`
`Mr. WARNER — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. I thank my friend. We can have our debates, and we 
frequently do, on procedure, and it is very confusing, of course, to 
the American public. But these are old rules that go back, I might say 
with some sense of pride, to Thomas Jefferson. He had a hand in writing 
them. Somehow this magnificent institution, the Senate, has been able 
to serve our great Republic these 200-some-odd years.

Apart from procedure--and it seems to me I recall that at an earlier 
juncture in the spring when we were debating certain amendments on 
Iraq, the Senator from Virginia had an amendment. It got over 50 votes. 
It was a bipartisan amendment. That amendment, quite interesting, while 
it failed to reach the 60-vote margin, it was picked up by the 
appropriators and word for word written into the appropriations bill.

It required, among other things, that the President report on July 
15. That report, I think, was of value. People can differ with it. I 
know it attracted a lot of attention and widespread press coverage. It 
was of value.

That report also set up an independent group. I consulted with my 
good friend, the chairman, Senator Levin, and told him I felt all the 
years we have been working together we get a lot of facts from the 
Pentagon about the status of Iraq's security forces. Shouldn't we have 
an independent group not affiliated with the Department of Defense--I 
am not, in any way, impugning the accuracy of their facts--have an 
independent group give us a second opinion.

GEN Jim Jones, former Commandant of the Marine Corps, offered to head 
up that group. I talked with him about it. He thought about it a long 
time. He decided to do it. He has about 18 individuals with military 
experience and two former police chiefs. They got back this weekend 
from a very intensive 1-week schedule studying these situations. So 
there is a great convergence of information that will be brought to 
bear and made public the first week in September.

But back to this question before us. The distinguished Republican 
leader put an amendment up. I would like to ask my distinguished 
colleague if he would cover with me the provisions and what his views 
are on some of the findings in the amendment.

This is a sense of the Senate on the consequences of a failed state 
in Iraq. Much of this material was put before the Senate a few days 
ago, filed by our distinguished colleague from Texas, Mr. Cornyn. Would 
the Senator from Illinois engage me in asking a few questions about it 
or is there another time he would be willing to do it?