# FIRST CLASS NAVY DIVER TIMOTHY ALEXANDER, THE NAVY SEA SYSTEMS SAILOR  OF THE YEAR
## `f2624134baed54e2e2d07cf7a795fd41`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Madam Speaker, I am extremely proud to rise today in 
honor of First Class Navy Diver Timothy Alexander of Middletown, Ohio. 
On March 9, 2007 First Class Navy Diver Alexander was awarded the Navy 
Sea Systems Command Sailor of the Year Award.

The Sailor of the Year Award program began 29 years ago in order to 
recognize the top enlisted sailors in the United States Navy. The 
program provides recognition to outstanding sailors through numerous 
presentations, awards, and meritorious advancement to the next pay 
grade. Sailors are judged on their performance for the past twelve 
months; performance over the course of their career to date; and off-
duty education, civic involvement and awards earned. Additionally, a 
selection board of four Command Master Chiefs question the finalists 
concerning Navy policies, ethics, guiding principles, and leadership. 
Following this long process, First Class Navy Diver Alexander was 
chosen as the Navy Sea Systems Command Sailor of the Year.

First Class Navy Diver Alexander enlisted in the United States Navy 
on June 12, 1991. Since his date of enlistment, Mr. Alexander has 
proudly served our Nation and protected our interests throughout the 
world. In June of 1992, he was a vital member of the salvage team that 
prevented the USS Ingersoll from sinking in the Straits of Malacca. In 
November of 1999, as an experimental diver, he volunteered for numerous 
experimental dives and was the lead technician on a groundbreaking 
chemical re-breather, which has been instrumental to seal operators' 
safety and mission success. In January of 2002 he completed several 
classified missions in support of Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring 
Freedom. These are only a few examples of many brave actions taken by 
Mr. Alexander throughout his long and accomplished naval career.

First Class Diver Tim Alexander is a testament to the great 
commitment and courage of all volunteer military. He has worked hard to 
further his education and training, and his efforts have been rewarded 
in being named the Navy Sea Systems Command Sailor of the Year. I 
consider it an honor to represent him in Congress.
