---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `f265a0a8b6449f4a704fe54b5f9d2bda`
`Mrs. MALONEY of New York — 12 March 2008`

---


Mrs. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

To respond to some of the points made by the gentleman from Texas on 
the high cost of the war, the gentleman from Texas has pointed out that 
the war is not paid for, that it's off budget, and I support his 
recommendation that it should not be in a supplemental emergency 
spending bill.

This chart here shows the Federal spending on the Iraq war versus 
other priorities in the 2008 budget authorization. The Iraq war is 
costing, the request, twice as much as is in the Federal budget for 
transportation for the entire country, and it is five times more than 
what is in the budget now for the National Institutes of Health. It is 
seven times more than the college tuition assistance. So this is really 
costing Americans a great deal of money that could be spent on other 
priorities.

This chart here shows that the administration wants to spend $435 
million on Iraq every day. And each year that money could be used to 
enroll for an entire year 57,000 children in Head Start, fund an 
additional 150,000 Pell Grants for low-income students for an entire 
year, save 290,000 families from losing their homes. It could hire for 
an entire year an additional 10,000 Border Patrol agents. It could hire 
more than 9,000 police officers for a year, and provide health 
insurance for 330,000 low-income children through the SCHIP program. 
So, for $435 million that they are requesting for Iraq every day, you 
could provide for an entire year health insurance for over 330,000 low-
income children.

So I really want to join my colleague from Texas in his comments on 
the spending on the war.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.