# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `f27270d4dd984f6f79df640d8e791dd8`
`Mr. PAUL — 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this conference 
report on the War Supplemental Appropriations. I wonder what happened 
to all of my colleagues who said they were opposed to the ongoing wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. I wonder what happened to my colleagues who 
voted with me as I opposed every war supplemental request under the 
previous administration. It seems, with very few exceptions, they have 
changed their position on the war now that the White House has changed 
hands. I find this troubling. As I have said while opposing previous 
war funding requests, a vote to fund the war is a vote in favor of the 
war. Congress exercises its constitutional prerogatives through the 
power of the purse.

This conference report, being a Washington-style compromise, reflects 
one thing Congress agrees on: spending money we do not have. So this 
''compromise'' bill spends 15 percent more than the president 
requested, which is $9 billion more than in the original House bill and 
$14.6 billion more than the original Senate version. Included in this 
final version--in addition to the $106 billion to continue the wars in 
Afghanistan and Iraq--is a $108 billion loan guarantee to the 
International Monetary Fund, allowing that destructive organization to 
continue spending taxpayer money to prop up corrupt elites and promote 
harmful economic policies overseas.

As Americans struggle through the worst economic downturn since the 
Great Depression, this emergency supplemental appropriations bill sends 
billions of dollars overseas as foreign aid. Included in this 
appropriation is $660 million for Gaza, $555 million for Israel, $310 
million for Egypt, $300 million for Jordan, and $420 million for 
Mexico. Some $889 million will be sent to the United Nations for 
''peacekeeping'' missions. Almost one billion dollars will be sent 
overseas to address the global financial crisis outside our borders and 
nearly $8 billion will be spent to address a ''potential pandemic 
flu.''

Mr. Speaker, I continue to believe that the best way to support our 
troops is to bring them home from Iraq and Afghanistan. If one looks at 
the original authorization for the use of force in Afghanistan, it is 
clear that the ongoing and expanding nation-building mission there has 
nothing to do with our goal of capturing and bringing to justice those 
who attacked the United States on September 11, 2001. Our continued 
presence in Iraq and Afghanistan does not make us more safe at home, 
but in fact it undermines our national security. I urge my colleagues 
to defeat this reckless conference report.