# RECOGNIZING DR. ROBERT DIXON--SCOTTSDALE HEALTHCARE'S ``SALUTE TO  MILITARY'' HONOREE
## `f27ca607fe43f7ecc62296fb8874581f`
`Mr. MITCHELL — 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Dr. 
Robert Dixon, Scottsdale Healthcare's ''Salute to Military'' Honoree 
for June 2008. Scottsdale Healthcare is recognizing Dr. Dixon and other 
physicians with a connection to the Armed Services for their dedication 
to saving lives and securing our freedom.

Since the program's inauguration in 2004, Scottsdale Healthcare has 
provided over 300 medical personnel with outstanding trauma skill 
training. The program is offered in partnership with Maricopa 
Integrated Health System and has focused on the Air National Guard, 
Luke Air Force Base, and Davis Monthan Air Force Base.

Dr. Robert Dixon is a deserving recipient of Scottsdale Healthcare's 
tribute. He is a Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Air Force, stationed at 
the 56th Medical Group of Luke Air Force Base in Arizona since 2004. 
Dr. Dixon will be deployed to Iraq in May of 2008, which will be his 
fourth deployment to the Middle East and Southwest Asia.

He was the first surgeon to participate in Scottsdale Healthcare's 
Military Training Program in preparation for deployment to the Gulf. 
The Military Training Program is designed to maintain trauma skills and 
integrates trauma surgery, neurosurgery, burn trauma, and other 
critical skills. He played a prominent role in the development and 
testing of the pilot project at Scottsdale Healthcare, in conjunction 
with Dr. Michael Foley and Dr. Ken Ransom.

Madam Speaker, please join me in recognizing Dr. Robert Dixon's 
tireless service and sacrifice to this country.
