# None
## `f28b8bc6cb2312866689775d6f2ec680`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I appreciate that. And it is an honor for me to be 
in the Appropriations Committee, and my friend on the Ways and Means 
Committee provides the ways and the means for us to get the job done.

One of the issues that we have talked about today a little bit is 
what the Democrats have been doing in Congress since we got here a 
couple of months ago. And I think it is very important, as we see all 
of the news stories about Walter Reed, as we see the news stories about 
the Attorneys General, we see the news stories about what is going on 
in Iraq, a year ago or 2 years ago, those stories wouldn't have even 
been possible because the threat of oversight hearings that Speaker 
Pelosi and the Chairs of our various committees have been executing is 
the exact balance of power that we were talking about prior to the 
elections last year. And the American people, very wisely, thought it 
was time for there to be some oversight.

But I must say, Mr. Meek and Mr. Speaker, that all of the thoughts 
that we had about what was going on in a lot of these various agencies 
we thought were bad, but we didn't know they were this bad. And I don't 
think anybody would have said the level of pressure, for example, in 
the Attorneys General situation, the level of incompetence and neglect 
at Walter Reed is just absolutely shocking. And we knew about it with 
the war. We saw the lack of execution in the war. We saw it in Katrina. 
And now, because the Democrats are in power, we are now able to begin 
to fix these problems.

The whistleblower reform strengthens protections for Federal 
whistleblowers to prevent retaliation against those who report 
wrongdoing, waste, fraud, abuse. This is how we begin to reform 
government, by allowing those people who are in the institution of 
government to be able to speak freely and to be protected and not to be 
bullied or prevented from somehow improving the institution.

The Freedom of Information request, we had some provisions here. More 
timely disclosure of government documents, restoring the presumption of 
disclosure to FOIA, helping FOIA requesters obtain timely responses, 
improving transparency and agency compliance with FOIA, providing an 
alternative to litigation, and providing accountability for FOIA 
decisions, opening up government, transparency in the 21st century. It 
is an information-based society, an information-based economy; and the 
more we open it up and allow the information to flow, the more we are 
going to be able to improve things.

One of the great problems we had in China several years with the SARS 
issue is that nobody knew about it and you can't fix problems that you 
don't know about. And whether you are in a family or on a team or in a 
business or running a government, you need to make sure there is free 
and open access to information.

Now, granted, there are sensitive issues, national security issues 
that need to be protected and need to be kept in order to secure the 
long-term future of the country. No one debates that. But when we are 
talking about government documents and the execution of an 
administrative or executive branch department protecting whistleblowers 
who may have information in order to make the government improve, this 
isn't to punish anybody. This is to improve the government. And that 
means some difficult decisions need to be made.

And I think, under the leadership of this House, we are moving down 
that road, step by step, very methodically to improve the lives of 
people in this country and to reform the institution of government.



That is what we are all here to do. We have had several other things 
that we had.

But I want to talk for a minute, Mr. Meek, if you don't mind, about 
oversight. I know you had mentioned oversight earlier in the evening, 
but what is going on and what has gone on already in this Chamber, as I 
mentioned, the Walter Reed thing came because of the threat of 
Democratic oversight and the committee oversight process that has 
already been going on.



For example, the war in Iraq, between the House and Senate, more than 
97 oversight hearings have looked into the conduct of the Iraqi war. 
Ninety-seven. There is the big number hearings. And more are coming.

Tomorrow in the Appropriations Committee we are going to pass out the 
supplemental that is going to begin the exit of this war, begin the end 
of this war.