---
---

# COMMEMORATING SEPTEMBER 11
## `f2b9fd130678e5f2a2f99d9b3736f8fb`
`Mr. HOYER — 14 September 2010`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

9/11 will remain a day of infamy, as December 7, 1941, lives. It will 
also live as a day that we will always remember, lament the loss of 
life, and rededicate ourselves to the defense of freedom.

As we did 9 years ago, today we stand united, one people--united in 
memory of the dead of September 11; united in awe at the heroic 
sacrifices that graced that dark day and so many since; and united in 
resolve to defend our Nation, its ideals, that animated spirit, defend 
its people, defend its shores.

September 11 was a day of grief, of shock, and of fear. But as we 
reflect back on the terror of that day, these things are within our 
power: to keep alive the names and memories of the dead--they were read 
in New York, in Virginia at the Pentagon, and in Pennsylvania--to 
reclaim the unity of a day on which neighbor reached out to neighbor 
and our divisions were submerged; and to rededicate ourselves to the 
ideals that, no less than buildings, were the targets of the attack. 
Ideals were under attack, like freedom, freedom of conscience; rule of 
law; and, yes, religious tolerance.

For those reasons, I am proud to introduce, along with the Republican 
leader, Mr. Boehner, this resolution commemorating the attack on 
America--its institutions, its values, its people.

For many, the shock of that day perhaps has faded. For some, however, 
especially those who loved and lost one of the 3,000, the grief is 
still fresh. But for all of us, the memory of September 11 is one we 
will carry with us, as I have said, as long as we live. It is a memory 
compounded of mourning for the victims, deep sympathy for those who 
held them dear; and profound pride for the first responders, 
firefighters, and police officers, and, yes, average citizens who came 
to the help of those in need. They served and they sacrificed--some 
their health, some their lives.

Terrorism is intended, of course, to provoke the worst in those it 
targets, but on that day their service showed America at its very best. 
So we remember. We remember in honor the 343 firefighters, 37 Port 
Authority officers, and 23 police officers who lost their lives along, 
of course, with the passengers on Flight 93.

How proud we can be of those passengers who learned what was 
happening, unlike most of us, unlike the people in the towers, unlike 
the people in the Pentagon. The brave Americans on Flight 93 knew what 
was happening, and they acted, and they gave their lives to save others 
who would have otherwise been targeted. And, yes, perhaps they saved 
this symbol of democracy. Many of us believe that is where Flight 93 
was headed--to decapitate this Capitol. A building, yes, but a powerful 
symbol of the values of this country that are not just this country's 
but universal in scope.

We also honor those troops who have served far from home. They too 
have shown America at its best; not only those who have lost their 
lives in our country's service in Afghanistan and


Iraq, but all those who have served and are serving, as we speak, in 
harm's way, at the point of the spear, to make sure that any fanatics, 
whether they base their fanaticism on a faith or they base it on hate 
and prejudice, we will confront them. We will defeat them. We will 
protect our country. We will protect our people, and we will preserve 
our ideals. With their families, we pray for their safe return.

Not all of us can offer sacrifices so profound, but it does not have 
to be a day of crisis to join with our neighbors in service to our 
communities. It can be this day. Indeed, it can be every day.

As we commemorate the gravest attack in American history, we also 
renew our resolve in the face of those who still intend us harm. This 
is a day to remember our commitment to defend America from whatever 
threats that confront us and to use all of our military force, all of 
our diplomatic skill, and all of the power of our moral example to keep 
America safe.

Like the Cold War before it, this is a struggle not just of arms but 
of ideologies. And every demonstration that America is a fearless 
society, a Nation of law, and a home for every faith is a victory over 
the fanatics who attacked us or who might attack us. That is our 
resolve--not as Democrats or Republicans, not as Members of Congress, 
but as Americans who have pledged ourselves to defend the Constitution 
of the United States, the laws thereof, and, yes, its principles and 
ideals. This will be expressed in a vote in this House today. But in 
the courage of our troops, the watchfulness of our intelligence, and 
the power of free American citizens to live out the meaning of our 
ideals every day, that will be the testament of our victory and the 
display of our resolve.

I rise in strong support of this resolution and in memory of those 
whose lives were taken by fanatics targeting not those individuals, per 
se, but targeting that in which they believed.

