---
---

# None
## `f2c2048d41786c0da1f98164e137d4a6`
`Mr. BIDEN — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I will not bring up the amendment or amend 
it now, but because time is of the essence for a lot of our colleagues, 
I wish to speak to what the changes are that were recommended by 
Senator Warner and others.

But before the Senator from Massachusetts leaves the floor, I wish to 
say to him--and I hope it will not in any way cause him any 
difficulty--he and I have been close friends for over 30 years, and I 
want him to know, and I want my colleagues to know, that much of what 
this amendment we are hopefully going to vote on is about is what the 
Senator and I have talked about for the last 4 years and that he has 
led on, including the international piece.

As a matter of fact, he led on it from a different perspective, as a 
candidate, as well. So I wish to tell him how grateful I am for his 
joining in this amendment. Quite frankly, it is a big deal that he is, 
and it adds not only credibility to the amendment in terms of our 
colleagues, but it adds, quite frankly, an international credibility to 
it because an awful lot of people around the world look to my colleague 
for his insights into what we do about the most critical issue facing 
American foreign policy today.

The truth is, in order for us to regain the kind of leadership in the 
world that I would argue we are lacking, we have to settle Iraq, and we 
cannot do it on our own. There is a need for the international 
community. Even if this answer is the perfect answer, it cannot be made 
in America any longer.

So I wish to thank my colleague and acknowledge that I have learned 
from him, and I wish to thank him for--and I know we use the phrase 
very blithely around here--his leadership. But I mean that. I wish to 
thank him for his leadership. He has been absolutely totally consistent 
on this point from before the time we actually used force in Iraq until 
today. So I want the record to reflect that.

Mr. President, while we are waiting to determine whether we are going 
to be able to proceed on the amendment, I think the concerns raised by 
several of my friends have been incorporated in


the changes that have been made. I am not moving to amend it now, but I 
am going to tell my colleagues what the Biden-Brownback amendment will 
be.

In the findings clauses, finding No. (3) has been added, and it is to 
reflect the concern raised by the distinguished Senator from Arizona, 
Senator Kyl--and I suspect others, but Senator Kyl is the one who 
raised this with us, in that he wanted to make it clear--