# None
## `f2cb9d5faa1ec2a054f53975cb8fd1b1`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. And that's the best thing from our vantage point: 
Prove to the American people as to what your beliefs are and how it's 
going to affect their lives. And if you have a couple of jobs and 
you're making the minimum wage, you got a pay raise twice already in 
the last year, just over the last year. If you're going to school, 
there is more grant money available for you to go get an education. 
There is a lower interest rate on the loan that you're going to take 
out or your parents may take out to send you to school.



Those are significant investments that Democrats have made into the 
future of our country so that middle-class people can be successful and 
take advantage of these tools. We can't do it for anybody. But these 
are tools that average families will use and implement to move forward.

Two of the things that we can't forget, we have also passed the GI 
Bill out of the House which will say that if you served this country in 
Iraq or Afghanistan over the past 3 or 4 years that you will have all 
expenses paid to go to college. In Ohio, there is a policy now that the 
Governor has implemented that you can come to Ohio, any veteran around 
the country, can come to Ohio and have in-State tuition rates if you're 
a veteran.

And look at what we've done for veterans' health care. The largest 
investment in the 77-year history of the VA was made by the Democratic 
Congress when we got in here. A lot of us weren't for the war. And I 
will be the first to say I wasn't for it. But what we all are for is 
honoring the service of the veterans who go over there and make the 
great sacrifice and the sacrifices that their family makes. So we have 
made that investment into the VA program so that the vets have the 
benefits that they need. And we're honoring their service by making 
that investment.

And if you look to the previous 7 years or 6 years, what the 
President made, Mr. Speaker, and what the Republican Congress made, it 
was $14 billion in corporate welfare to the oil companies. It was tax 
cuts to people who make millions and millions of dollars a year. It was 
an energy policy that got us $4 a gallon gas. It was a health care 
policy that gets 15 or 20 percent increase on your health care. A 
dramatic difference. And I'm proud to stand up here and talk a little 
bit about what we've done and what we're going to continue to do, 
because I feel like we're just getting started. And we have an election 
coming up now in November. And I think there is an opportunity for us 
to really move forward.

So, I'm honored again to be with the gentleman from Pennsylvania. And 
Mr. Speaker, we're going to wrap up. Again, congratulations to my 
brother and sister-in-law, they're grandparents to Andrea. And we will 
yield back the balance of our time.
