---
---

# RECOGNIZING RESIDENTS OF TRACY, CALIFORNIA
## `f2d156d568f9579817458cb2e4b92769`
`Mr. McNERNEY — 29 June 2010`

---


Mr. McNERNEY. Madam Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise to honor the residents of the City of Tracy on 
the 100th anniversary of the city's incorporation and for their century 
of dedicated service to the United States. I ask all of my colleagues 
to join me in supporting this important resolution to recognize the 
service of Tracy's residents. I am fortunate to represent Tracy, which 
sits in the rich agricultural region of California's San Joaquin 
Valley.

Time and again through the last century, Tracy residents have proven 
their dedication to our country by serving in our armed services. Many 
Tracy residents have made the ultimate sacrifice, giving their lives 
defending the freedom we cherish and protecting our Nation from the 
enemies at home and abroad.

The Tracy area is home to unique military history and tradition. For 
instance, Camp Tracy, located not far from the city, was the site of 
significant intelligence operations during World War II. The area is 
also home to the Defense Distribution Center-San Joaquin, commonly 
called the Tracy Defense Depot, which plays a critical role in 
supplying our men and women serving overseas.

Members of the United States Armed Forces from the City of Tracy have 
served bravely, and many have lost their lives in World War II, the 
Korean war, the Vietnam war, the Persian Gulf war and other conflicts 
of the 20th century. Tracy residents are also serving with distinction 
in the current battlefields in Iraq and Afghanistan.



The city's newspaper, the Tracy Press, reported on November 11, 2008, 
that, per capita, the city of Tracy has endured one of the Nation's 
highest casualty rates in the war in Iraq. Just the other week, I 
attended an event in Tracy to honor the memory of one of those fallen 
heroes, and I am always humbled and made proud by the outpouring of 
support by Tracy residents for our men and women in uniform.

On many weekends back home in California, I visit Tracy to meet with 
local veterans and discuss the issues that affect their lives. I am 
committed to making sure that our veterans are cared for and that their 
families receive the support they deserve. My son Michael joined the 
service shortly after 9/11, and caring for our men and women in uniform 
is a deep personal priority. Our country should always recognize 
communities like Tracy whose residents answer the call to service.

I'm proud to recognize the residents of the city of Tracy on the 
occasion of their centennial anniversary of the city's incorporation. I 
ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution honoring the 
veterans and residents of Tracy for their dedicated service to our 
Nation.