# SCHIP
## `f2d23b643f450313070b6fc65c095939`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, this afternoon, I will be attending a 
hearing of the Senate Appropriations Committee. The Secretary of 
Defense will


be there, the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff will be there, as will 
someone from the State Department, and they will be here supporting a 
proposal by the President to the Congress that we supply up to $200 
billion in additional funding for the war in Iraq and Afghanistan--all 
of it declared ''emergency,'' none of it paid for, and that is $200 
billion for this year. That will take us to almost three-quarters of a 
trillion dollars, with respect to the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, all 
added to the Federal debt as a result of a request by the President 
that it be emergency spending.

I mention that only because we have been talking out here on the 
Senate floor about something called the children's health insurance 
program. It is a fraction of what we will be discussing this afternoon 
as emergency funding. The children's health insurance bill is fully 
paid for. That which came out of the Senate Finance Committee on a 
bipartisan basis to address the issue of health insurance for children 
and do so in a way that fully pays for it. It is a very different 
circumstance than exists with the President's request for war funding, 
for example.

But it is interesting to me that the loudest moans in the Chamber of 
the Senate come when we take the floor of the Senate to talk about 
taking care of things here at home, taking care of basic things in this 
country.

What is more basic than taking care of children and the health care 
of children? If it is not in first place, tell me what is in first 
place among your concerns about life. I am talking about the health of 
our children. If that doesn't rank No. 1, tell me what does. It ought 
to rank No. 1, front and center. Everybody individually, I think, would 
say the most important thing in my life is my children and my 
children's health. Yet we bring a bill to the floor of the Senate 
dealing with children's health, paid for, and it provides expanded 
coverage, coverage to those children who don't have coverage--millions 
of children whose health is now a function of how much money their 
parents have in their checkbook, and who, in some cases, are lying in 
pain, walking with a limp, suffering through agony but cannot go to a 
health care facility because their folks cannot take them because they 
don't have any money or insurance. Does anybody here believe we should 
not aspire to address that? And we have. We have a piece of legislation 
that is fully paid for----