# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `f2e45b1b137a2565a440ecc1cbdc9267`
`Mr. SPECTER — 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I have sought recognition to comment 
briefly on the proceedings in the Senate in the last few days. I call 
upon my fellow Senators to reconsider the tactics which are being used 
to defeat the pending legislation. This body prides itself on being the 
world's greatest deliberative body. But that designation has been 
destroyed with what has occurred in the last several days.

We have seen a filibuster on the Defense appropriations bill. We are 
at war, and we have 68,000 young men and women in Afghanistan today who 
are giving life and limb for this country. We are debating whether they 
ought to be funded. I have heard the question raised by those in the 
military: Doesn't the Congress support the troops?

The impact on morale is potentially devastating when the Senate is 
not moving ahead to provide the funding, the money to support their 
efforts. I have no hesitancy in extolling their virtues at the highest 
level of patriotism. I wouldn't want to make any comment about a 
corollary negative, as to what is going on in this body. But it is 
hardly in the spirit of patriotism that we are asking these young men 
and women to be in harm's way and to give life and limb.

We have seen procedures involved on the reading of the amendments.

Rule 15 does provide for reading: Amendments shall be reduced to 
writing, read, copies deposited on the desks of the majority leader and 
the minority leader before being debated.

Those are the purposes involved. But there is no intent in the rules 
of the Senate to have hours spent reading an amendment for dilatory 
purposes. The intent of the rule and the spirit of the rule is to 
inform people but not to have this body paralyzed by this kind of 
conduct.

We have passed the point of civility. We have passed the point of 
decency in the way this body is being conducted. I call upon my 
colleagues to reconsider these tactics and to try to move ahead and do 
the people's business. The American people are perplexed, mystified--it 
is hard to find words strong enough on what the public reaction is. The 
public opinion polls show that approval ratings are plummeting--
plummeting. People have no confidence on what is happening in this 
body, no understanding as to what is going on, and they see partisan 
political gridlock of the worst sort in the time since my election in 
1980, and from my conversations with those who have been in this body a 
good bit longer and from my own study of the history of the Senate.



I urge my fellow Senators to reconsider these kinds of tactics and to 
try to get on with the people's business because that is why we are 
here.

I yield the floor.