---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f2ef000494324b5b2fa105a1af850ecb`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Chairwoman, I want to first say that I rise 
in support of H.R. 2082, the Intelligence Authorization Act.

Our Nation is at war. We are fighting in Iraq, Afghanistan, and we 
are battling terrorists worldwide. We are also witnessing the rise of 
nuclear powers in Iran and North Korea. We are facing major challenges 
from China and Russia, who want to gain a technological edge on the 
United States.

America has to stay on the offensive, and the way to do that is with 
stronger technology. This bill will strengthen our intelligence 
capabilities and invest much needed resources in new research and 
development.

I am the chairman of the Technical and Tactical Subcommittee, which 
is responsible for overseeing technical intelligence assets, including 
the National Security Agency. The subcommittee has been working hard to 
ensure that this bill provides the necessary resources so that the 
Intelligence Community has the latest cutting-edge research and 
technology. This is the foundation for good intelligence.

Other countries are gaining the ability to take out intelligence 
assets, such as orbiting satellites. Al Qaeda is finding innovative 
ways to communicate over the internet to plan attacks.

We need to develop smarter tools to collect this information about 
threats to the U.S. and our allies. This bill refocuses the 
Intelligence Community on these new and emerging threats. The number 
one priority is preserving our technical workforce. This bill invests 
in our scientists and engineers.

This bill also addresses the future of research and development 
across the Intelligence Community. Let me emphasize; we must invest 
more heavily in research and development. The committee is looking to 
the Director of National Intelligence to establish an aggressive R&D 
investment strategy that promotes cooperation among various agencies 
while allowing each agency to conduct research that fulfills its 
specific needs. During this time of growth, we need to maintain the 
good working relationships the Intelligence Community has with our 
Nation's research centers.

In closing, we need to maintain our technology. We should vote for 
this bill.

I have been on the Intelligence Committee for 4 years. I feel very 
strongly that this committee should be USA first. What we have to deal 
with is very important. I am very distressed and concerned that the 
minority at this point, who I have worked with and are excellent 
friends and I respect, the first bill that we have coming out of as a 
majority are voting ''no.''

We need to bring consensus together. We need to work as a team. There 
are some things that we have and some that we don't, but I hope that we 
will be able to work together in the future and go beyond this tonight.