# None
## `f2f3ee2e9c43a9e93fad7788d38e1a86`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. The sense I am getting from my district now is that 
this is all fine probably if everything is going okay for everyone 
else. But the fact that things aren't going well, people are struggling 
to pay for their health care and college tuition. They are living 
paycheck to paycheck, bankruptcies are up, foreclosures, and kids are 
getting killed because of an administration that has been less than 
forthright with the facts. I think that is what is stirring among the 
American people.

That is what happened in the election in November; and I think quite 
frankly the key to moving the kind of agenda we want to move here is 
going to be organize and tap that energy that is back home in a lot of 
our districts. Unless we do that, we are going to struggle. But I think 
we have the wind at our back. We have the American people at our back. 
They like what we are doing. There are good responses from the bill we 
passed on Friday.



We have got to get out of Iraq, and this President does not have the 
credibility to I think withstand the kind of pressure that is coming 
from the American people. The American people want out. They are tired 
of watching what is happening. Five more soldiers got killed, more kids 
maimed, more kids injured, more kids at Walter Reed, more kids go into 
a VA system that is less than adequate, and the American people are 
looking for the kind of changes that you have talked about, Congressman 
Meek has talked about.

The bottom line I think is this, and whether you are talking about 
the war or anything else. For the war, it is like, well, there is only 
two options here. We either go down the road the President has taken us 
down and keep going or we have this alternative that we presented to 
get us out in the next year, hopefully earlier. An alternative to not 
going with our proposition is to continue to give the President a blank 
check, continue to have kids get killed, continue to not have a plan 
with absolutely no explanation as to what we are doing over there. No 
one even knows anymore.



To go along with the President's budget means that as we look through 
our notes here and the research we did, 1 million children who are 
currently covered under the SCHIP program will get cut out of it. Our 
plan, invest $50 billion to cover millions of children who are 
currently uninsured. Which way do you want to go? I mean, this is not 
brain surgery. The President wants to continue to give tax cuts to the 
top 1 percent. We want to cover kids with health care, without raising 
taxes.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
