# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `f30b6d8a54ffafca438080981864cac1`
`Mr. GREGG â€” 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, let me join and participate in expressing 
my appreciation to Senator Leahy and his staff for bringing forward a 
bill that is a reasonable bill. It is within the budget requested by 
the President. In fact, it is a little bit underneath it. It has a very 
strong commitment to the right priorities, and Senator Leahy deserves 
great credit. He has been instrumental on the issue of how we proceed 
in foreign policy for many years. Prior to my assuming this ranking 
position, Senator McConnell and he worked together hand in hand to 
address these issues, which cover the globe, are complicated but have a 
huge impact on an awful lot of lives.

I appreciate his exceptional work in this area, and I appreciate the 
fact he has brought forward a piece of legislation which I am happy to 
support with enthusiasm. There are some issues, obviously, on policy 
which hopefully will be straightened out and which have been alluded 
to. They are primarily the issues of Mexico City and the Kemp-Kasten 
language. But the bill itself is basically a very strong bill, and it 
is within the budget as requested by the President. Therefore, 
hopefully, we can get the Mexico City language straightened out and 
move on to passing the bill.

His staff--Tim Rieser and the Democratic staff--have been 
extraordinarily fair to our staff--Paul Grove and our people on this 
side--and we appreciate their courtesy. When we raised issues, they 
tried to address them and resolve them.

I wish to point out a few highlights in this bill. The chairman has 
mentioned a number of them. I think it is important to recognize we are 
a compassionate Nation, committed to trying to help people who we see 
in need. This bill reflects that innate quality of the American people. 
It is one of our great characteristics as Americans that we as a nation 
and as a people try to reach out to those who have not been dealt quite 
as good a hand as we have been dealt and try to help them across the 
globe.

We use a lot of American taxpayers' dollars to do that. People work 
hard for those dollars. When we spend them in other countries, people 
want to be sure, of course, they are spent well, and they want to be 
sure they are getting results. They expect them to be spent to benefit 
regions of the world that have not been quite as lucky as we have been.

That is why the commitment in this bill to AIDS, which is huge--$5 
billion--is important. It is something that has been bipartisan. The 
President has clearly taken the lead on this issue. This committee has 
strongly supported those initiatives.

We also have made a very significant effort in the area of 
humanitarian aid dealing with migration and refugee assistance and with 
international disaster assistance. That is what these dollars are used 
for. When you go out and you meet folks, as all of us do--that is one 
of the fun parts of doing this job, representing our constituents and 
hearing from them--sometimes--actually, not that often in New Hampshire 
and I suspect not that often in Vermont, but sometimes you hear people 
say: What are we sending all this money overseas for? Those are dollars 
we worked hard for and could spend here in America.

Well, we spend them overseas, first, because we are a nation which is 
blessed--and we understand others are not--and when we see things we 
can try to help with, such as the AIDS epidemic in Africa. We also send 
these dollars overseas because, quite honestly, it benefits us. It is 
that simple: It benefits us. It benefits us on two levels.



First, it benefits us on a national security level. Most or many of 
these dollars which we spend under this bill essentially go to 
countries which undertake actions which assist us in our national 
security and pick up burdens which we might otherwise have to pick up, 
not only with dollars but also with American troops being at risk. So 
it is a good investment from that standpoint.

Also, we basically are a trading nation. Our great success as an 
economy is the fact we are engaged, we are the international economy. 
Participating in that economy is critical to creating jobs and economic 
benefit here. Thus, we use these dollars, to a significant degree, to 
stabilize regions and give them economic viability. Quite simply, we 
can then participate in that economic viability by selling them goods--
products or services--which we manufacture or make in the United 
States.

Again, it benefits us. So these dollars which we spend--and they are 
significant; $34 billion is a lot of money--are dollars which we spend 
well, I believe, on behalf of the American people in most instances.

In this bill, for example, we significantly assist the military 
efforts of the nations of Egypt, Israel, Pakistan, Indonesia, and other 
allies around the globe. We have increased the funding, for example, 
rather significantly to the country of Jordan. Let's take that as an 
example.

Here is a country right in the middle of the Middle East, which is a 
linchpin in the Middle East which represents stability, represents a 
forward-thinking Government, that cares for its people and wants its 
people to succeed but does not have the resources of many of those 
nations in the Middle East that have the good fortune to have oil or 
gas. Yet they take on responsibility that we would have to otherwise 
take on. They take on massive numbers of refugees from Iraq, which has 
strained significantly their infrastructure and their educational 
system and the culture.

We have some obligation, I believe, to support a country which is 
willing to take these types of steps to assist its neighbors but also 
has duress to some degree because of our efforts in that region. So 
that is why I think increasing the funding for Jordan is very 
appropriate. I certainly hope we will be able to maintain that as we 
move through the entire process.

There are no earmarks in this bill. We obviously have had quite a 
battle in this Congress over how many earmarks people should have, what 
types of earmarks people should have. This bill is pretty much earmark 
free. In fact, unless you consider funds going to a foreign government 
requested by the President as an earmark, there are virtually no 
earmarks in this bill, for which, again, I congratulate the chairman 
for that sort of leadership. As he said, he is complying with S. 1, 
which passed this body back in July. It has not been signed yet, but we 
presume it will be, or at least the language relative to how earmarks 
in appropriations bills are handled will certainly go into force. So I 
congratulate the chairman for pulling this bill together in that form.

I wish to speak briefly, though, about one area which I am concerned 
about and which I find to be a bit of an affront--more than a bit--a 
real affront, and that is dollars which we are allocating to certain 
activities in this international arena which are being wasted, they are 
being fraudulently handled, they are being used for patronage or there 
is simple corruption, which is stealing. We have three examples of that 
which are rather severe. We are missing $8 billion, minimum--remember, 
the number, I suspect, is significantly higher--in Iraq in 
reconstruction. A lot of the reconstruction money which we are supposed 
to be spending in Iraq doesn't appear to be getting out into the field, 
the rubber doesn't seem to be hitting the road. The money seems to be 
somewhere; we are not sure where. We hear representations that it may 
be buying buildings in Switzerland rather than building buildings in 
Iraq, but we know, because the money is not moving out, that the 
dollars are not there and not doing what they are supposed to be doing.


This concerns many of us on both sides of the aisle. The GAO has been 
giving us report after report. The special Inspector General has been 
giving us report after report highlighting this concern, which is that 
there is and appears to be significant corruption, and that corruption 
is misallocating funds--American tax dollars--in Iraq.

In addition, another example of concern is the World Bank. The World 
Bank has just taken on a new leader, Secretary Zoellick, Ambassador 
Zoellick, who is one of the strongest individuals I have met in my 
experience in public life. I think he is one of the best public 
servants I have come across. He is totally committed to doing things 
the right way and has no problem making a decision and shaking a place 
up, that is for sure. I think he is going to be good for the World 
Bank. But he comes into a situation which has very big issues relative 
to the dollars that are being spent there. Reports are coming out that 
literally hundreds of millions--if not billions--of dollars are being 
siphoned off from these grants, that there is inadequate oversight, 
that there is a lack of transparency, that there is shoddy accounting, 
and that there is just plain theft going on of some of these dollars. 
We have examples of corruption which appear to be fairly significant in 
Kenya, in Guyana, in India, in Bolivia, and in various other regions. 
The biggest concern, independent of the loss of dollars and the dollars 
not being used to benefit these nations which need the assistance, is 
the fact that there seems to be a real resistance within the structured 
bureaucracy of the World Bank to telling anybody what is going on, and 
there appears to be more of a commitment to hiding the facts than to 
disclosing the facts when it comes to corruption, mismanagement, poor 
accounting, and that is not right.

These are American tax dollars. We are going to put $1.1 billion into 
the World Bank with this bill, and the American taxpayer, at least the 
people from New Hampshire and, I am sure, the people from Vermont, 
don't expect those dollars to be spent to line the pockets of some 
corrupt official in one of these nations. They expect them to be spent 
to assist the people in those nations who haven't been as fortunate as 
we have. The World Bank has to get its act cleaned up, and that begins 
with transparency.

So in this bill we have put in significant language--I believe it is 
significant--which will essentially fence 20 percent of the 
appropriations until we hear from the World Bank that they have made 
public the available financial disclosure forms, that the bank has 
established a plan and a schedule for conducting regular independent 
audits, that the bank is adequately staffing and sufficiently funding 
the Department of Institutional Integrity, and that the bank has made 
publicly available the bulk of the panel report which we wish to see. 
We may add another thing to that. We want to make it unalterably clear 
that we are tired of the obfuscation that is coming out of the World 
Bank and that the World Bank makes public the Department of 
Institutional Integrity November 23 report relative to the India issue, 
which has received a fair amount of attention recently.

So we are fencing these funds. They are not going to get this money 
until we get some accounting rules that work over there. I think with 
Secretary Zoellick now in charge, he will be equally aggressive in 
making sure that this sort of action occurs.

In addition, of course, there is the United Nations. I have always 
supported funding the United Nations. I strongly support the United 
Nations as an institution, as a concept, and as a key player in world 
events in order to try to give the world a place where it can come 
together and resolve disputes, especially.

But once again, we have a track record of mismanagement and shoddy 
accounting, and sometimes no accounting, and patronage and misuse of 
tax dollars that are rather staggering. Article after article has been 
reported in this area. It is--the U.S. taxpayer picks up about a 
quarter of the cost of the United Nations--a disproportionate amount 
quite honestly, in my opinion--but we do it because we believe in that 
institution. But it is very hard to tell an American taxpayer that the 
dollars they are sending to the United Nations, if it goes into certain 
accounts is going to disappear, or it is going to be used to give a job 
to somebody's cousin


who is coming in from some country where they couldn't get him a job.

So again, I say this is an issue we are going to focus on in order to 
try to get some fair and honest accounting, transparency, and a system 
that uses at least American tax dollars efficiently to benefit the 
world rather than uses them to benefit individuals who happen to be in 
high places or have found themselves in positions to take advantage of 
the situation.


So those are issues I think are critical. The corruption issue is 
very high, at least on my agenda, as to how we handle these dollars. 
But that doesn't undercut the basic need here, which is to have a 
strong and vibrant commitment to foreign aid assistance and to 
international assistance which addresses priorities that we have as a 
nation in dealing with other countries and also addresses the needs of 
other people around this globe where we see we can make a difference, 
such as in the AIDS area.

Again I congratulate the chairman who has done a good job on this 
bill, his staff has done a good job on this bill, our staff has done a 
good job on this bill, and I hope we can pass it promptly.

There are a number of amendments from our side. I have been made 
aware of a number of amendments, and we are ready to start the 
amendment process, and whenever people want to start offering 
amendments--I see the Senator from Florida is here and I know he has 
two very good amendments that I will certainly be supportive of, I 
suspect, and I will be happy to proceed if he wants to offer them, and 
I will be happy to hear them. I presume there will be no votes until 
about 2:30.

Madam President, I make a point of order that a quorum is not 
present.

Madam President, I would like to reserve that request and I ask 
unanimous consent that the committee amendment be agreed to, that the 
bill as thus amended be considered as original text for the purpose of 
further amendment, and that no points of order be waived by virtue of 
this agreement.