# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f31e2ed07e5eaba9228afde478547acd`
`Mr. GERLACH â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. GERLACH. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, the status quo in Iraq is unacceptable, and allowing our 
enemies to win is unacceptable, too. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I urge my 
colleagues to oppose this House Democrat leadership resolution, H. Con. 
Res. 63, for three specific reasons:

First, the language of the resolution is essentially meaningless. Its 
passage will place the Congress on the side of the status quo.

I heard the Speaker say a few days ago that it is time for a ''new 
direction'' in Iraq. But where is this ''new direction'' in this 
resolution? It doesn't demand that all the troops return home. It 
doesn't advise the President to send more troops or even to reassign or 
relocate one soldier who is in the field today. It simply states, in 
essence, the current plan is bad. That may be good politics for some in 
this Chamber, but it is highly irresponsible and is certainly no way to 
fight a war.

If Congress wants to be a true partner in this fight, we must offer 
clear guidance, not mere criticism of the Commander in Chief. 
Unfortunately, this resolution is irresponsibly silent on what the 
''new direction'' ought to be.

The second reason to oppose this resolution is that it is 
fundamentally vague and ambiguous. By only saying that Congress opposes 
the President's troop surge proposal of January 10, the resolution does 
not differentiate between the positive aspects of what the President 
called for on that date and the more controversial elements as well.

For example, I continue to have a tremendous concern over the 
President's plan for increasing our military force level in Baghdad to 
fight the sectarian violence between the Sunni and Shi'a factions of 
the Iraqi population. With the current lack of commitment of some Iraqi 
security forces and police forces to deal effectively with this 
violence, I am not confident of success of this surge into Baghdad. 
Nonetheless, I do think the strategy is correct in calling for 
additional American troops to go to Anbar Province to fight al Qaeda 
terrorists in that part of Iraq and to add more troops along the Iraq-
Iranian border to interdict the flow of arms and more terrorists.

But, unfortunately, again, this resolution does not differentiate 
between these critical elements of the President's strategy and, 
therefore, on its face is weak and flawed.

The third reason to oppose this resolution is that it serves to 
undercut the morale and the support of our fighting men and women at 
the very time they are carrying out their orders. The President's 
decision of January 10 is now being implemented. Our troops are already 
carrying out this mission in the field.

I know of no instance in our Nation's history when Congress has 
passed a resolution disapproving a mission while that mission is in 
progress in the field. Can any proponent of this resolution come to the 
floor and cite a case where Congress has undertaken this type of action 
while a mission is already under way?

Any politician, it seems to me, who openly disapproves of an ongoing 
mission in the field only undercuts troop spirit and morale as they 
move forward, and that clearly lends support to the aims and the goals 
of our enemies. But don't accept my view on this. Listen to Gary 
Kurpius, the National Commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, who 
states that this resolution debate is ''a major distraction to U.S. 
forces because it does nothing to improve the morale or strength of 
their resolve.''

So while I cannot support this resolution for these reasons, I do 
believe there is a ''new direction'' for us, as Republicans and 
Democrats, to unite behind and support. H. Con. Res. 45, introduced by 
Congressman Frank Wolf, would declare Congress's support for the 
numerous recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, a 
distinguished group of Republicans and Democrats that have set forth a 
plan of action deserving of administration, congressional, and public 
support.

Included in the group's recommendation is the call to establish 
milestones of success for military training, government stability, 
national reconciliation, which would result in Iraqis taking control of 
their country and allowing our troops to withdraw; number two, to 
create an Iraq International Support Group to work with the Iraqi 
government to achieve these milestones; and, three, to focus U.S. 
assistance on training of Iraqi police forces and military personnel 
with the goal of completing the training by early 2008 so American 
troops can return home.



Contrary to the flawed, simplistic, and purely political resolution 
before us, the Wolf resolution offers clear, bipartisan, and 
nonpolitical direction for Congress to support and to promote in this 
very difficult time in our involvement in Iraq. Therefore, I urge my 
colleagues to vote down H. Con. Res. 63 and for the Democrat leadership 
in the House to immediately allow H. Con. Res. 45 to be voted in the 
full House. Because the status quo in Iraq is unacceptable and victory 
for our enemies is also unacceptable.