# WAR SUPPLEMENTAL IS BAD POLITICS, BAD POLICY
## `f35d6cf4fc42479db9f2401967207ff4`
`Mr. CARTER — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. I think that is a very good point. I also think it is a 
very good point to note that we are talking about, we need to get back 
to what we set out to do here in Congress with this supplemental bill. 
I mean, what did the President and the generals who are in charge of 
this fight ask us to do as a Congress? Did they ask us to load up a 
bill with pork so that folks back home would have all kinds of pork 
projects? No. They asked us to give them what it takes for them to do 
their job. They did not ask us to run the war. They asked us to help 
them do their job.

People love to quote generals around here, and, in fact, today I have 
heard twice quoted generals. Of course, these were all generals that 
are no longer in the fight, but they quote them, and they are certainly 
valid sources, and I do not criticize the opinions of those generals. 
They love to quote them. But I do not hear anybody quoting the opinions 
of the generals that are in the fight today, and yet they are giving us 
their opinions.

One of the things that some folks back home ask me, and I think this 
is a valid thing to pass on to everyone here in the House and to 
whoever may be listening, General Petraeus was asked about an exit 
strategy from Iraq. He said, let us get this deal to work because we 
think we have the right formula to make it work, and as we stand up the 
Iraqi troops and they show what they are showing us in preliminaries 
right now that they are now ready to participate, as we have these 
successes, we can start drawing down the troops.

So he told an exit strategy. How many of us have heard that in the 
media? All we hear is we are going to war, it is never ending, and 
there is no exit strategy, and the man that we just elected or voted 
for in the Senate


unanimously to be in charge has told us, this is not a never-ending 
situation. It is all about standing up the Iraqis and standing down the 
Americans, and we can get there if we do this thing well.

This man is considered by everyone in the military as the 
counterinsurgency expert of the Army. That is why we have got him over 
there.

So let us get back to what we are doing here. American soldiers, one 
of the things that just amazes me what the soldiers and marines do, 
they strap on between 80 and 100 pounds of stuff, sometimes more than 
that, and they go out in 140-degree temperature in metal vehicles and 
fight for the freedom of those people in Iraq. But this Congress and 
this bill wants to load on their shoulders an additional $24 billion 
worth of pork, and it is a shame.

And why does this bill have this pork in it? What I mean by pork is 
things that have nothing to do with what we were asked to do, which is 
help our soldiers do their duty.