# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `f37007ed453b496f33a45955a04f515c`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 7 June 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I commend the Senator from Iowa, 
Senator Harkin, for his tremendous work and advocacy that has gotten us 
to this place today, a very important day that he talked about, where 
the House of Representatives voted to pass the embryonic stem cell 
research bill, joining the Senate. That bill is now on its way to the 
President's desk.

It is because of the work of Senator Harkin over the years and his 
advocacy and his not giving up that we are here today. I am very proud 
to join him on the floor to urge the President, now, to do the right 
thing.

The House of Representatives today, in voting for this bill, offered 
hope to millions of Americans in supporting embryonic stem cell 
research. There is now one person who can make this decision for 
millions of Americans and that is the President of the United States. 
He has a choice. He can stand with so many people who are looking for 
that desperately needed cure or he will stand against them. I hope, 
similar to my colleague from Iowa, the President pauses, thinks about 
the lives he holds in his hands and makes the right choice and signs 
the bill for embryonic stem cell research.

This is an issue I know personally. I grew up in a family of nine. My 
dad was a wonderful, physically active human being. He served our 
Nation in World War II; raising his children. He was a strong man. In 
my eyes when I was growing up, he was indestructible, but when I turned 
15 years old, things changed dramatically in my life and my dad's life. 
My dad was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. That is a horrific 
disease, for anyone who is not familiar with it. It wasn't long until 
he could no longer walk, he was in a wheelchair and required my mother 
to take care of him full time.

It was a very difficult time for my family. We had to watch my dad 
deteriorate physically. We had to watch as my mom returned to work. She 
was on welfare for a while and finally was able to get some schooling 
and get a job. But she had to work, take care of my dad, and raise all 
seven kids.

We all hoped a cure one day would be found for my dad and people like 
him. You never lose hope when something such as this happens to you. It 
is essential to dealing with what you have been handed. But we were 
also realistic. Scientists didn't have any promising leads, doctors 
said there wasn't much they could do, there was no cure on the horizon, 
there was nothing to hinge our hope on when I was growing up. But now 
we have a chance finally to offer families across this country hope, 
opportunity, a chance for a cure.

It is time for President Bush to stop his obstruction and to stop 
saying no to cures and to stop saying no to hope for families such as 
mine.

Unfortunately, we know since being elected, President Bush has 
blocked robust federally funded research on embryonic stem cells. 
Originally, he told us there would be 78 stem cell lines available for 
study. In truth, there were only 21, far fewer than scientists say are 
needed for this research.

Even the Director of the National Institutes of Health, as Senator 
Harkin talked about, who was appointed by President Bush, said: ''It is 
clear today that American science would be better served, and the 
Nation would be better served, if we let our scientists have access to 
more cell lines. . . .''

The President refused to heed that advice from the scientific 
community


or his own Director of the National Institutes of Health. He did so--
why? To pacify the ideological views of a few in his political base. 
What he did by blocking that was to force millions of Americans who 
suffer from many ailments to put their hope on hold and to stand idly 
by and watch as a family member's condition worsened.

Besides putting the hopes of millions of people on hold, the 
President's action actually pushed stem cell research overseas. Our 
country, which has been known as the world leader in medicine and in 
scientific research, is now falling behind other countries in this 
field.

Reuters recently reported that British scientists, with funding from 
an American who was upset with President Bush's actions, were using 
embryonic stem cell research to cure some forms of blindness.

Our country must remain at the forefront of innovation. Institutions 
such as the University of Washington, in my home State, have to have 
the ability to compete with organizations in other countries. This 
President has denied that.

The bill that has been sent to the President today is on its way to 
his desk. The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007 allows the 
Department of Health and Human Services to finally begin robust 
research on embryonic stem cells from frozen embryos, embryos, it is 
important to note, that would otherwise be discarded.

That bill also promotes research into funding alternative ways to 
derive stem cells from embryos, and it does these things while it 
imposes strict ethical guidelines, as all of us have insisted upon. In 
fact, the standards in the legislation that is on its way to the 
President's desk today are more stringent than even the President's own 
policy.

Most important, though, the legislation we want this President to 
sign takes hope off hold for millions of Americans. We all know the 
President has threatened to once again veto this legislation, as he did 
last year. I am here today, and I hope he hears me, to say: Please 
don't do that.

There are millions of sick Americans and their families who are 
watching and waiting and praying and hoping he signs this bill. If he 
vetoes this bill, he will likely claim, as he did last year, the 
legislation is unnecessary since researching adult stem cells, which he 
supports, is as promising as studying embryonic stem cells.

Similar to last year, he would be wrong. Scientists say embryonic 
cells, which can be used to grow any type of human or cell tissue, show 
the most promise. They offer the most hope.

I have lived with someone with a serious illness. I have seen the 
suffering that happens, personally, to their families, and to everyone 
around them. I know how hard it can be. We must not block the discovery 
of cures for these people. We must not block their hope. Today, at 
least 17 million Americans suffer from diabetes. At least 500,000 
Americans suffer from Parkinson's, 250,000 Americans suffer from 
multiple sclerosis, and 250,000 have spinal cord injuries, including, I 
would add, many veterans of the Iraq war. All these Americans, and many 
others who suffer from a variety of conditions, will stand to benefit 
from embryonic stem cell research.

Finally, today, in sending this bill to the President, this Congress 
is offering a chance to families across the country to have hope, to 
have an opportunity, to have a chance for a cure. I hope President Bush 
hears their calls, picks up that pen, stops his obstruction, stops 
saying no to cures, and signs his name to the legislation. We are all 
watching.

I yield the floor.