---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `f371e18a8814809eb1d94836afa474c7`
`Mr. BARRETT of South Carolina — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. BARRETT of South Carolina. I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
And I hope the chairman of the Armed Services Committee knows how much 
I respect him and truly love this man.

Mr. Speaker, I know of no other place than Washington, DC, where it's 
okay to look a man in the face, tell him we're going to give him the 
time, the resources and everything he needs to accomplish a mission, 
and then halfway through the process, say, oops, I'm sorry, time's up. 
We made a mistake. Mission over.

No one person I know or have known executing this war on radical 
Islam has more credibility than David Petraeus, a gentleman who was 
confirmed unanimously in the United States Senate, but instead of 
giving GEN David Petraeus, a man whose boots are on the ground, a fair 
opportunity and allowing him the time he needs to better implement the 
plan and report back, we once again see legislators trying to 
micromanage this war. The problem is, we've turned this into a 
political war, a war where politicians are pulling the strings, not the 
man we said could do it.

If anyone can pull this off, David Petraeus can. If any armed 
services in the world can be successful, the men and women of the 
United States Armed Forces can. But let them accomplish the mission. 
Let them continue to win. Let them bring us victory.

In recent weeks, we've witnessed in Great Britain how real the threat 
remains. Whether we're talking about Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan, the 
enemy is there, the enemy is real; and to ignore the threat that they 
pose to this Nation is unconscionable.

We owe it to our troops on the ground, to those who have served, to 
those who have died, and the American people to allow the plan General 
Petraeus developed to take effect.

Mr. Speaker, the stakes are too high. Keep this country safe. Keep 
this country strong. Do the courageous thing. Vote against this 
legislation.