---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f377661cd770b31926b934594f06fc73`
`Mr. CHABOT — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. CHABOT. Thank you, Madam Chair.

Mr. Speaker, I first want to express our appreciation to the brave 
men and women of our Armed Forces. I have met with our troops in Iraq 
and in Afghanistan and our wounded soldiers in Walter Reed and Bethesda 
Naval Hospitals and the families of those who have paid the ultimate 
sacrifice defending our freedoms. We thank them for their unwavering 
commitment to our country and believe we owe it to them to have an open 
and honest debate regarding our next steps in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, there is no question that the war in Iraq has been 
challenging. We are fighting a war against terrorists and radical 
Islamic militants who are determined to kill as many Americans as 
possible. They believe that killing American soldiers will drive us out 
of Iraq and out of the Middle East, allowing radical terrorists free 
rein and a base to expand their influence around the world.

These are the same radical Islamic militants who bombed the World 
Trade Center in 1993, the Khobar Towers in 1996, the embassies in Kenya 
and Tanzania in 1998 and the USS Cole in 2000. We surely can't forget 
the slaughter of 3,000 innocent American citizens on our soil. And just 
last year a couple arrested in Britain planned to use their 6-month-old 
baby as a human bomb to destroy a civilian airliner over the Atlantic 
Ocean.



We must recognize that we are dealing with irrational, radical, 
maniacal monsters who will not respond to diplomatic niceties.

Mr. Speaker, we all know that the vast majority of Americans do not 
support an immediate withdrawal from Iraq, just as they do not support 
a never-ending deployment of U.S. forces there. They want us, they 
expect us, to work together and with the President to find a way to win 
the war on terror while bringing our troops home as soon as possible.

We should be past the point of political posturing when it comes to 
Iraq. Yet this resolution is more of the same, once again placing 
politics over policy. Instead of encouraging substantive discussion on 
options in Iraq, the majority has once again shut us out of the process 
and refused to consider any alternative to their point of view. That is 
truly unfortunate because this nonbinding resolution does nothing to 
increase the accountability of the Iraqi government or provide for our 
troops or even propose a new course in Iraq.

We all agree that this administration has made mistakes in Iraq. Most 
harmful, I believe, has been the slow pace of training Iraq troops and 
security forces to take responsibility for their own country. Early 
lapses in this area are a principal reason why our troops remain in 
Iraq today.

But the administration has taken action to accelerate this training 
and better prepare Iraqi forces. So now it is time for the Iraqi 
government to demonstrate that it has the ability to confront the 
problems facing their country, both politically and militarily. That is 
why it is so important that we hold the Iraqi government accountable 
for what they say they are going to do and require them to take the 
lead in securing their Nation. The Iraqi government and the Iraqi 
people must recognize that they, not American troops, are responsible 
for the future of their country.

With that being said, we must continue to support our troops and 
commanders on the ground by giving them the resources they need to be 
successful. It would be a tragic mistake to cut off funding or limit 
support for our troops fighting against terrorists abroad. We also must 
be very careful about the message we send to our allies and our enemies 
and, most importantly, to our troops in the field who have performed 
with great courage.

The bipartisan Iraq Study Group has stated that it could support a 
shorter redeployment or surge of American combat forces to stabilize 
Baghdad or to speed up the training and equipping mission, if the U.S. 
commander in Iraq determines that such steps would be effective, and 
that is a quote from the Iraq Study Group report. Well, General 
Petraeus says that it can be effective.

Clearly, the path forward must include military and political 
strategic benchmarks so that we are in a position to measure the 
progress and commitment of the Iraqi government, but we must also be 
willing to give our troops, who have sacrificed so much for our Nation, 
the opportunity and the resources to be successful and provide the 
short-term support needed to achieve increased stability in Iraq.

There are serious consequences to our national security if we fail in 
Iraq. Cutting off funding, limiting military options or pushing for 
immediate withdrawal will only make our future more dangerous. It is 
time to stop the politics, stop the games, stop the finger pointing, 
and do what is best for America. Let us put partisanship aside and 
discuss concrete plans on how we can defeat radical terrorists and 
protect our Nation from those who mean us great harm.