# JULIA M. CARSON POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `f3794487520db7a72ae096e7be6ebdb8`
`Mrs. CHRISTENSEN — 9 April 2008`

---


Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5472, which 
designates the post office at 2650 Martin Luther King, Jr. Street, 
Indianapolis, Indiana as the ''Julia M. Carson Post Office Building'' 
in honor of my friend and former colleague, Congresswoman Julia Carson.

Julia Carson was a tireless representative of the people of Indiana 
who served them from her position as a congressional aide in the 1960s 
to two terms in the Indiana House of Representatives to service in the 
Indiana Senate from 1976 to 1990. She vigorously pursued issues related 
to the needs of working men and women, public health, the environment, 
and fundamental justice. When the AIDS epidemic broke out, Mrs. Carson 
was one of the early champions of the right of the sick to be treated 
fairly as she worked to bring public understanding about the new 
illness.

As a victim herself of discrimination in health care, which delayed 
the diagnosis and treatment of her heart disease, she was an ardent 
advocate for the elimination of all health disparities.

Julia Carson coupled her career in public service with a 10-year 
stint in corporate America. As Marion County Center Township Trustee in 
1990, she saved the financially floundering office, earning the 
accolade of Indianapolis Woman of the Year from the Indianapolis Star 
for the second time in her career.

Julia Carson came to Congress in 1996 and brought the same energy and 
enthusiasm to this body to which her constituents in Indiana had grown 
accustomed.

As a Congresswoman, Julia Carson was proud of her vote against the 
Iraq War, her legislation that awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor 
to Rosa Parks, and her tireless advocacy for women, children, the 
homeless.

After more than 40 years of service to the people of her district and 
the State of Indiana and indeed to the country as a whole, I join my 
colleagues in their overwhelming support of the Indianapolis post 
office being named in her honor.