# None
## `f37e7a5bff77c44507a4ef14b93eb4d0`
`Mr. HODES — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Madam Speaker, the interesting thing about what this bill 
does, I mean the reality of what it does, is it gives this President an 
opportunity, it gives him a fabulous opportunity, to face reality, as a 
leader should, and understand that he is being given the opportunity 
for a new direction, for a new direction that is tough and smart, and 
smart about our security, because it is designed to make sure that our 
interests in the Middle East are taken care of in a responsible way. 
The American people know that. They want us to be responsible in the 
way we resolve the situation in Iraq.

Major General Paul Eaton addressed the notion of why this is so 
responsible when he said, ''This bill gives General Petraeus great 
leverage for moving the Iraqi Government down the more disciplined path 
laid out by the Iraq Study Group. The real audience for the timeline 
language is Prime Minister al-Maliki and the elected Government of 
Iraq.'' Because it gives the general, it gives the President, the 
leverage to say, folks, it is time that you stepped up, to say to Prime 
Minister al-Maliki it is time you stepped up. Are you serious about 
reconciliation? Are you serious about the political stability that Iraq 
needs? Are you serious about the economic stability Iraq needs? Are you 
serious about it, or are you just waiting because we are going to be 
there forever? Because right now, the President has made an open-ended 
commitment, and this bill responsibly puts an end to that open-ended 
commitment.

Now, the folks on the other side of the aisle have said, time and 
time again, that this somehow weakens us because it gives notice to our 
enemy, whoever that may be. They say it is al Qaeda. We are in the 
middle of a civil war. There is some al Qaeda there to be sure. What 
Major General Paul Eaton said is, ''The argument that this bill aids 
the enemy is simply not mature. Nobody on the Earth underestimates the 
United States' capacity for unpredictability. It may further create 
some sense of urgency in the rest of our government, beginning with the 
State Department.''

Because we have got to ask, where are the diplomats? Where are the 
diplomats? There are some provincial reconciliation teams on the 
ground, working around the country and they are talking about more. But 
where have been the diplomats? Where has been the diplomatic effort 
that everybody acknowledges is really what is necessary to bring some 
stability in the Middle East?

Why did it take Speaker Pelosi to go to Syria to begin some dialogue? 
Because everybody recognizes that we have got to talk to people, even 
those who are our enemies in this complex world in the 21st century.

So this bill gives the President, it gives the generals, the leverage 
to forge a new direction.