# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `f3818dd4b3c09216efe9530d413fae2a`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 21 March 2007`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I am here to speak on behalf of the 
budget resolution and to share some statistics about what has been 
going on in this country for middle-class families. I have to tell you 
this before I show the statistics. Having met with people all over our 
State and having sat in living rooms and had meetings with people, they 
could not really understand why their kids who just graduated from 
college could not buy a house, and they could not understand why they 
were struggling to send their kids to college and why they were 
struggling to go on vacations because of the high gas prices.

While having meetings with these people, lightbulbs would go on in 
their heads about these things. That is what is going on with a lot of 
people in this country. That is what the statistics show. That is why 
it is so important to have a budget that gets these families and kids 
on a strong fiscal track. At least this budget brings us back to the 
pay-as-you-go rule. At a time when the wealthiest have been getting 
wealthier and wealthier, at least this budget says how can we help the 
middle class going forward.

Let's look at the statistics.

First, look at the productivity. Typically, real compensation for 
workers--the wages and benefits--tends to track productivity growth. 
That is what it did in the late 1990s. This hasn't really happened 
since the 2001 recession. Our productivity growth, as you can see, has 
been strong, as the blue line on this chart represents, but 
compensation growth has been relatively weak. That is the red line 
there.

Recent gains in real compensation have not significantly narrowed the 
gap that has been opened. Workers have a long way to go to catch up 
with the gaps they have missed out on so far in this recovery. So it is 
because of their work that we are seeing this productivity gain, but 
they are not getting their piece of the pie. That is what we see in the 
increasing gap every year.

We have to look at the next chart reflecting real earnings growth. 
This looks complicated at first, but it makes sense when you look at 
what the lines represent. The bluish-purplish bars are for the kinds of 
real earnings growth we saw in the late 1990s. If we focus on usual 
weekly earnings of full-time workers, we see only modest gains--and 
that is the red here--in the distribution from 2000 to 2006. This 
contrasts sharply with the gains you see in the late 1990s, which is 
the blue part of the graph, when productivity first accelerated.

I note this marked difference between what you saw from 1996 to 2000 
and from 2000 to 2006. This doesn't even include bonuses of highly paid 
executives or capital gains and other nonwage income earned at the very 
top of the income distribution. This chart shows how real earnings 
growth has been weaker and more unequal than in the late 1990s. For me, 
when I think about those people in the living rooms in Brooklyn Park, 
MN, as they talk about how they could not afford health care, this is 
what it is about, because their real earnings growth has been much 
weaker and it has been harder for them to afford these important parts 
of


their expenditures, such as health care, gas, and those things. Those 
prices have gone up.

Now, at the same time we have this going on, we have this: CEO 
compensation, right now, is 350 times average work pay. I think the 
average person has to work an entire year to make up for what so many 
of our top CEOs make in the first day of the year. In 1980, the average 
CEO made about 50 times as much as the average worker. In 2004, that 
ratio was nearly 350. The average CEO made 350 times the pay of the 
average worker.

So you can see what has been going on with the share of wealth in 
this country and why we have these people all over the country who are 
working hard and who are the engine of the economy--the middle class--
and it is harder and harder for them to keep up and to get by. That is 
what we are trying to do in this budget resolution--start the process 
of getting the country back on track so that we respect the people 
doing the work, the middle class, the hard-working men and women of 
this country.

The last thing I wish to share with you is about the distribution of 
wealth in this country. This is a similar way of looking at the CEO 
distribution issue. In 2004, the wealthiest 1 percent of households had 
more net worth than the bottom 90 percent of households. So here you 
have the top 1 percent. This is their portion of the pie, 33 percent. 
Here is the bottom 90 percent, the middle class people; 9 out of 10 
people are here, and their wealth is actually less than this top 1 
percent of the people in this country. Even when you go to the next 9 
percent, which is about 36 percent of the wealth, when you include them 
until you have the top 10 percent, the wealthiest 10 percent of people 
in this country, they have more than two-thirds of the total wealth.

So statistics are important, but what really matters is the people in 
this country. When you look at the statistics, you understand why, for 
a student from the University of Minnesota, Jay Boler, it was hard to 
get by day after day and to afford college tuition when it had gone up 
110 percent at 4-year colleges in the last 2 years. He is not in that 
top 1 percent. That is not where he is. You can understand why Jeanne 
O'Hearn, who owns a drycleaner in Robbinsdale, MN, is trying to get by 
with few employees. It is hard to afford health care for her employees. 
You can understand because she is not in that top 1 percent. You can 
understand why a mom in Mahnomen, MN, whose child had been called back 
to Iraq for the third time, cannot sleep at night and why she is upset 
because he is probably not going to get the benefits he needs when he 
gets back. She is not in that top 1 percent.

What this budget resolution does is at least acknowledge the fiscal 
issues of this country by putting back pay-as-you-go, because this 
interest doesn't hurt the top 1 percent, but it hurts everybody else in 
this country. It also says we are going to start helping the people who 
have helped us; that is, the middle class.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.