---
---

# None
## `f3909ddf6b6c1531396a2aa3a9bc7733`
`Ms. FOXX — 13 March 2007`

---


Ms. FOXX. I want to thank you, Congressman Price, for continuing to 
make sure that the Official Truth Squad is represented here in Special 
Orders and that we continue to hold the majority accountable for 
telling the truth. They forget that a good part of the time; so I am 
very pleased to continue to be a member of the Official Truth Squad.

My colleague has shared some of the concerns that I have already with 
this legislation that we are talking about that nobody has actually 
seen, the supplemental war funding bill that we think that the 
Democrats are going to unveil this week. We believe that it is laden 
with a great deal of unnecessary pork which is being used to buy votes 
on behalf of the Democrats to try to get the legislation passed. It is 
also, I think, out there to try to make us look bad if we vote against 
it.

But the worst part about this bill is that it is a reckless attempt 
to curtail the President's power to wage a congressionally approved 
war.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle simply need to 
understand that this misguided proposal will serve only to hamstring 
our generals as they work to bring peace and democracy to this 
tumultuous region. And again my colleague that has spoken before me, 
Congressman Kline, I think has done a great job of talking about what 
the generals have said and what they need, and we know that the 
Democrats very selectively take quotes out of what General Petraeus has 
said.

And I agree with you, Congressman Price, we have both a military and 
a political war to win in the Middle East, and we are going to do that. 
I have every conviction that we are going to do that. But I think it is 
very interesting, as Congressman Kline pointed out, that even the very 
liberal mainstream media understands that this slow-bleed strategy on 
the part of the Democrats is absolutely wrong. It is such a cynical 
thing that they are proposing to do. And I think that the L.A. Times 
editorial, ''Do we Really Need a General Pelosi?'' is so appropriate. 
These people promised so much to get elected last fall, and the kinds 
of things they are doing are so far away from what they promised to do. 
And getting involved in micromanaging the war is absolutely the 
opposite of what they should do.

I am going to quote some of what nobody else has quoted from the 
editorial. It went on to call the bill ''an unruly mess, bad public 
policy, bad precedent, and bad politics . . . It was one thing for the 
House to pass a nonbinding vote of disapproval. It's quite another for 
it to set out a detailed timetable with specific benchmarks and 
conditions for the continuation of the conflict.''

And we saw this morning a replay of a press conference where even the 
Democrats couldn't agree on what the timetables are that they are 
setting up. They talk about 2007, they talk about August, they talk 
about April. Even they are very, very confused about it. But the L.A. 
Times article goes on to say: ''This is the worst kind of congressional 
meddling in military strategy. If Congress accepts Bush's argument that 
there is still hope, then lawmakers have a duty to let the President 
try this''surge and leverage' strategy.

''By interfering with the discretion of the Commander in Chief and 
military leaders in order to fulfill domestic political needs, Congress 
undermines whatever prospects remain of a successful outcome. It's 
absurd for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to try to micromanage the 
conflict, and the evolution of Iraqi society, with arbitrary timetables 
and benchmarks.''

I mean even when the liberal press comes out against you, you have 
got to know that something is wrong with what you are planning to do.

The Washington Post has described the Democrats' slow-bleed strategy 
as leading ''not toward a responsible withdrawal from Iraq but to a 
constitutional power struggle with Mr. Bush, who has already said he 
will veto the legislation. Such a struggle would serve the interests of 
neither the Democrats nor the country.''



I think these people are so detached, they are so focused on what 
they see as their power, one they think through an overwhelming 
majority, which was not an overwhelming majority in the fall, but they 
think that they now have all power. They don't want to just be Members 
of Congress. They want to be the President. And I think that it is 
ridiculous that they want to do that.

Like my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I want to see 
America's troops come home as soon as possible. But the best way to do 
that is to achieve victory in Iraq.

Somebody pointed out in the last few days that we never hear the word 
''victory'' out of the mouths of any Democrat, and I started listening 
for that and I think the American people need to listen for that. The 
Democrats want us to lose in Iraq. They want to be able to prove that 
this was not a good war. I think for their own political purposes they 
would like to see us lose. They never mention victory.

If we don't secure Iraq before we leave, we will be encouraging the 
terrorists and insurgents by convincing them that their war of 
attrition has been successful.

I want to emphasize again what has been said before. There are very 
good reasons why our founders set up congressional oversight and 
accountability for presidential war powers, but micromanaging 
legitimate wars on the basis of political considerations was never one 
of them. This Congress needs to focus on our constitutional duty to 
provide long-term oversight. Not enough of that has been done. We need 
to do more of that. But to set a precedent of micromanaging a war is 
short-sighted and extremely dangerous. We need to get back to doing 
what Congress should be doing and leaving the execution of this war to 
the President and the generals who are there to do it, and let us do 
our job. We don't do well enough as it is.