---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `f393ae5f8e25f383e2acda5b02c1838c`
`Mr. HATCH — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I rise to speak on a question that 
continues to weigh rather heavily on my heart. I am reluctant to ask it 
since such a question would never have been asked, or even 
contemplated, by previous generations of Americans. But it is a 
question that now must be asked since it is central to our future: Do 
we, as Americans, have the resolve to see our commitments through? It 
is a question we must confront in a number of policy arenas that will 
directly affect the way we, our children, and our grandchildren will 
live in this new century. Do we have the resolve and the courage to 
meet our commitments and confront the looming crisis of Social 
Security?

Do we have the resolve to balance our Nation's budget? Do we have the 
resolve to endow our children with a proper education so they can 
master and push the limits of science, thereby providing our Nation the 
means to compete in an increasingly competitive world economy?

However, at this point in our Nation's history, the crucial question 
concerning our resolve as a nation does not relate to matters of 
domestic policy. It relates to our commitments beyond our borders. It 
is the central and critical component in determining who will prevail 
in the global war on terrorism. Will we, our coalition allies, the 
people of Iraq and their elected Government, emerge victorious? Or will 
we renounce and abdicate our commitments and responsibilities to the 
Iraqi people--leaving them to a fate controlled by terrorists and 
leaving our future security as a nation in peril?

Generations ago that, unto itself, would be a stain on the honor of 
this country; but these are different times.

Turning our back now will only provide our enemies with a new base of 
operations, and unlike Afghanistan, this base contains vast oil wealth. 
Imagine al-Qaida with billions of dollars to do with as Osama bin Laden 
wishes. I wonder what they will buy with all that money. Remember, 
shortly after the liberation of Kabul, there were numerous media 
reports that al-Qaida was working on chemical weapons.

So, with that in mind, I again ask: Do we have the resolve to see our 
commitments through?

As we seek to answer this question, I am reminded of events that 
occurred during the summer of 1940. The Nazi armies, seemingly 
invincible, had conquered Western Europe. France, the Netherlands, 
Poland, Denmark, Norway, and Belgium had all fallen.

The British Army, after its rescue from Dunkirk, no longer possessed 
sufficient numbers of artillery and tanks to defend against the 
blitzkrieg. All that stood between Hitler and complete victory was the 
English Channel and 650 fighters of the Royal Air Force.

Then Hitler offered a deal. In exchange for a ''free hand in 
Europe,'' the Nazis would provide ''guarantees'' that they would not 
invade Great Britain.

Despite the fact that the British Army lacked sufficient equipment to 
effectively repulse an invasion, Prime Minister Churchill resolved to 
keep his nation's commitment to the people of Europe. He would not 
abandon them.

His words, which I will paraphrase, still echo today:




 The Battle of France is over . . . the Battle of Britain is 


 about to begin. Upon this battle depends the survival of . . 


 . Western civilization. . . .The whole fury and might of the 


 enemy must very soon be turned on us. Hitler knows that he 


 will have to break us . . . or lose the war. If we can stand 


 up to him, all Europe may be free. . . . But if we fail, then 


 the whole world, including the United States . . . and all 


 that we have known and cared for, will sink into the abyss of 


 a new Dark Age made more sinister, and perhaps 


 more protracted, by the lights of perverted science. Let 


 us, therefore, brace ourselves to our duties and so bear 


 ourselves that . . . men will say--This Was Their Finest 


 Hour.


This is the lesson that history teaches us: that resolution to see 
your commitments through is what great statesmen and nations are made 
of--that peace and justice can only be restored through bold action.

So what do my colleagues on the other side of the aisle offer, 
knowing full well this lesson of history? In a word: defeat. In his own 
words, the Democratic leader said on the floor of the Senate, on April 
19, the ''war is lost.'' To be fair, the leader did attempt to temper 
his words by saying:




 As long as we follow the President's path, the war is lost. 


 But there is still a chance to change course and we must 


 change course. No one wants us to succeed in the Middle East 


 more than I do. But there must be a change of course.


So what plan, or new course, does the Democratic leader or other 
Democrats offer? How can we, in his words, ''succeed in the Middle 
East''?

His answer can be found in the conference report to this bill. But I 
warn anyone who attempts to read this legislation, first you must wade 
through billions in spending allocated to projects and programs that 
have nothing to do with the war before you learn how our Democratic 
colleagues plan to ''succeed in the Middle East.''

What is their plan for victory? Well, their legislation states that 
no matter what happens, the bulk of our forces will begin to withdraw 
after July 1, or if the President makes certain certifications, after 
October 1.

So what is their strategy? I believe Winston Churchill would have 
characterized the Democratic strategy as: guaranteed defeat.

Is this resolve?

Is this determination to see our commitments through?

No.

This is the worst case of capitulation to appeasement since Neville 
Chamberlain spoke the words ''peace in our time.''

What is needed now is leadership. Now, at this critical moment in 
history, great nations need to follow Churchill's advice, yet the 
Democrats offer us only Chamberlain's.

The Democratic leaders previously stated, in 2005:




 [A]s far as setting a timeline . . . that's not a wise 


 decision because it only empowers those who don't want us 


 there, and it doesn't work well to do it.


Wise and sound words. That was real leadership. Unfortunately, that 
was when the polls supported their position to stand firm. Now the 
Democratic leaders have reversed themselves because the polls have told 
them that is what they should do.

Two days ago, during an interview on CNN, the Senator from Nevada was 
asked if he would believe the words of our new commander General 
Petraeus ''that there is progress going on in Iraq, that the so-called 
surge is working. Will you believe him when he says that?''

What was his response? ''No, I don't believe him, because it's not 
happening.''

Now, I find this to be an incredible remark. Less than 3 months ago, 
the majority leader had joined a unanimous Senate and voted in favor of 
General Petraeus. But this was more than just another confirmation 
vote. The major subject of his confirmation hearing and the subsequent 
debate on the Senate floor was the new strategy the general had 
outlined.

So what is the new strategy? Simply put, General Petraeus is 
executing one of the tenets of a classic counterinsurgency strategy by 
providing and maintaining security to the local population and 
neighborhoods in Baghdad. Only when this is achieved will the Iraqi 
Government be able to continually offer basic services such as clean 
water and electricity, which are the backbone of any modern society.

This, in turn, creates conditions where the Iraqi people can begin to 
develop a growing economy and where families feel safe to send their 
kids to school. As these goals are achieved, more and more of the 
population will desire even greater stability and will support and work 
toward creating Iraqi Government institutions and security services 
that maintain and enhance this new, secure environment.

How is this different from the past? Previously, U.S. forces would 
clear an area of insurgents, but, unfortunately, soon thereafter, our 
forces would leave and the insurgents would return. Now, under General 
Petraeus's plan, American and Iraqi security forces will


maintain security in the cleared neighborhoods of Baghdad. To date, 
over 50 security force units, based in what are called garrisons, can 
be found in the neighborhoods of the city, and even more are planned.

That is why the additional forces that we are sending to Iraq are 
vital. It is not more for more's sake, but to maintain a secure 
environment for the Iraqi people and to help them stand up for 
themselves.

Based upon the briefing that the Senate received yesterday from 
General Petraeus, and information I have examined as a member of the 
Senate Intelligence Committee, I can report that we are seeing signs of 
progress.

Frankly, I believe the changes that have been made in the last 3 
months are remarkable and need our full support, and it is readily 
apparent we do not yet have all the promised forces deployed and in 
Iraq.

So let us return to the question that I asked when I began my 
remarks: Do we, as Americans, have the resolve to see our commitments 
through? Or will we falter?

That is what the vote on this conference report will demonstrate. 
Will we stand with firm resolve behind our commitments and see our new 
strategy through? Or do we adopt a policy of appeasement and hope that 
al-Qaida, and those who wish us harm and seek to destroy the values 
that we hold so dear, do not follow us home to our country?

What side of history do you wish to be on? Based on America's history 
and our resolve that has seen us through so many difficulties in the 
past, I believe the American people do not want retreat, they want 
success and security.