---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `f3bd6e853b46f458cbc3500be305fc57`
`Ms. McCOLLUM — 16 March 2010`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H. Con. 
Res. 248, a resolution that would require the President to 
precipitously withdraw American troops from Afghanistan by December 31, 
2010. While I welcome today's robust debate on such a critical issue, 
there can be no doubt that abandoning Afghanistan and the region in 
this moment is against America's national interests.

I have supported America's engagement in Afghanistan since my vote in 
2001 to authorize military action against those responsible for the 
terrorist attacks of September 11th. After years of inattentiveness by 
the Bush Administration, President Obama inherited a deteriorated 
security environment in Afghanistan. General Stanley McChrystal, the 
top U.S. commander in Afghanistan, completed a review in August 2009 
that confirmed conditions to be rapidly declining, with the Taliban 
insurgency gaining ground and the allied NATO effort losing the support 
of the Afghan people.

Stability in Afghanistan and Pakistan directly impacts the safety of 
our citizens, and violent extremism poses a real and significant threat 
to global security. For this very reason, our efforts in Afghanistan 
have received overwhelming international support, with over 40 
nations--NATO and non-NATO alike--contributing troops.

I support President Obama's strategy to provide our service men and 
women with the resources they need for success, to increase the 
commitment of our NATO allies through renewed engagement, and to build 
up the Afghan security forces so that our troops can come home. This 
work will not be quick, nor will it be easy. Still, one thing is clear: 
Afghanistan cannot be allowed to once again become a sanctuary for 
terror and extremism.
