---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `f3c30a1f7c04e86dc221699687ed906f`
`Mr. TAYLOR — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Chairman, I want to thank all of the Members of the 
Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee for their cooperation on 
this. I want to thank in particular Ranking Member Saxton and Chairman 
Abercrombie for the funds that were transferred from their portions of 
the bill to address the immediate warfighter needs in Iraq.

Madam Chairman, a disproportionately high number of Americans are 
dying in Iraq in explosions that involve Humvees. We as a Nation have 
spent a lot of money to protect the troops that ride in them. 
Unfortunately, the enemy has discovered that Humvees are vulnerable 
from the bottom. This bill includes $4.1 billion, ten times more than 
the President's request, to field a new generation of vehicles, a mine 
resistant ambush-protected vehicle, to protect the troops in Iraq. This 
could only be done with the cooperation of the Air and Land Forces 
Subcommittee and the Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee.

Keep in mind that the President's budget request was actually written 
about a year ago. It is responding to the needs as we see them in the 
field, and I think a very good move. We also want to thank the great 
staff of the Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee for the 
work that they have done.

The President asked for seven ships in this year's budget: a Gerald 
Ford class aircraft carrier; a Virginia-class submarine; an LPD 17; two 
LCSs; a T-AKE cargo ship; and a Joint High Speed Vessel. Because of the 
good work of the subcommittee and the cooperation of the other 
subcommittees of the Committee on Armed Services, this committee has 
added an additional LPD 17, an additional T-AKE cargo ship, and the 
forward funding for an additional submarine.

The Bush administration's Defense budgets have grown by well over 
$100 billion during their tenure. Unfortunately, the Navy fleet has 
shrunk by 50 ships during the same time. This marks the first attempt 
on the part of the committee in a long time to reverse that trend and 
get our Nation back on course for a 313-ship Navy, and I want to thank 
all those who helped make that possible.



Additionally, the bill funds a competitive engine program for the 
Joint Strike Fighter. It fully funds the administration's request for 
ship and aviation construction and procurement. It fully funds the 
administration's request for the operation of the Maritime 
Administration.

The bill would allow the Secretary of the Navy to come up with a 
program for capital expenditure in shipbuilding to help modernize our 
shipyard infrastructure and reduce the cost of our Navy ships to the 
taxpayers.

It will allow for the multi-year procurement for Virginia-class 
submarines, and it will direct the Secretary of the Navy to design and 
construct the next generation of surface warships with integrated 
nuclear power systems.

Madam Chairman, it makes no sense at all to have aircraft carriers 
that carry 30 years' worth of fuel on board when the vessels that are 
necessary to protect them have to refuel every 5 days. We are 
addressing this vulnerability to our fleet and, more importantly, we 
are taking a huge step on behalf of the Department of Defense to make 
our Nation less dependent on foreign sources of fuel.

I would like to acknowledge that none of these initiatives could have 
taken place without the great cooperation and leadership on the part of 
the former chairman, Mr. Bartlett. Addressing the nuclear power issue 
is a direct result of his making the committee aware of our 
vulnerabilities to fuel, and the need for shipyard modernization again 
is a direct result of his efforts while he was chairman. It is also 
with the great cooperation of the minority and the members of our staff 
that we present this portion of the bill to the Congress and ask for 
its approval.







Notice to Alter Order of Consideration of Amendments
