# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `f3c79a8ad3e03a5556662b606e29ea17`
`Mr. LYNCH â€” 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairwoman, and I rise for the 
purpose of engaging in a colloquy with the gentlewoman from New York.

First of all, Madam Chairman, I would like to thank you for your 
efforts to increase funding for nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, 
demining and related programs.

My amendment would have targeted a specific increase for the 
counterterrorism program within the nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, 
demining and related programs account. This vital program was only 
funded at the President's request of $6 million, which is actually a 
reduction from the $7.4 million in last year's budget.

I appreciate the good work done by the chairwoman and by the 
committee in meeting the President's request. I understand that. But 
the President has not done a sufficient job in the area of 
counterterrorism, and there has been actually a reduction in this area.

As the cochair of the Task Force on Terrorism and Proliferation 
Financing,


I have joined many of my colleagues, including the Chair, in meetings 
and hearings facing the challenges that we confront in the United 
States Government in battling terrorist financing.

Since the attacks on 9/11 Congress and this committee have taken 
significant steps towards utilizing investigation and data collection 
regarding terrorist financing as a viable intelligence tool for 
disrupting the financing of terrorist activities. Nevertheless, 
terrorists' proven ability to move money through innovative means 
necessitates continued progress in this critical counterterrorism area.

Al Qaeda's strength, for example, rests in its ability to continually 
adapt to U.S. tactics, and thus it requires greater innovation and 
greater resources in order to develop new strategies to counter those 
efforts.

In April, I had an opportunity to organize a trip to the Middle East 
where we met with high-ranking banking officials to discuss the issue 
of anti-terrorism financing in Jordan, in Afghanistan, in Iraq and in 
Istanbul, Turkey. I believe that through international financial 
pressure, we can effect real change in the policies of other countries 
towards these terrorist groups.

In the parts of the world where financial restrictions would have the 
greatest impact, unfortunately, U.S. influence is at its lowest. On the 
other hand, however, I know from our own experience that these 
countries do want to participate in the global economy. Thus, we have 
seen that these countries are more likely to adopt transparency in 
their finance laws for the purpose of gaining legitimacy in the eyes of 
global investors rather than simply responding to U.S. pressure. By 
allocating more resources to induce anti-money-laundering compliance 
and transparency, we can make significant gains in tracking terrorists 
and cutting off their funding.

While we made some progress, considerable work remains to be done in 
regulating, for instance, the hawala system, which is an informal 
transfer system used extensively in the Middle East, because anytime 
you have a lack of transparency and a lack of accountability regarding 
the movement of funds, there is a great likelihood that terrorists and 
criminals can harness the system for their own gain.

By closing off legitimate financial markets for terrorists, we force 
them to change tactics that are less secure and oftentimes easier to 
track. A perfect example is the example of December 14 and the arrest 
of Palestinian Prime Minister Haniyeh at the border crossing into Gaza 
from Egypt carrying an estimated $30 million in cash in suitcases for 
the Palestinian Authority and for Hamas. The reason that Hamas has to 
operate that way is because financial markets were not available to 
them. Instances like these highlight the importance and indeed the 
benefit of focusing on counterterrorism financing efforts.

In essence, I am greatly concerned that the President is not doing 
enough and that by meeting the President's request, we here are not 
doing enough to stop the financing of terrorist operations.

Mr. Chairman, I would yield back to the gentlewoman from New York for 
a response.