# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `f3cbc77d22ff162f3fbdf497dca8cdce`
`Mr. OBEY â€” 24 July 2009`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 3 minutes.

Mr. Chairman, let me point out that the underlying language in this 
bill is, in fact, a compromise. It lifts the ban, but it does not 
permit Federal funds to be used for needle exchange programs that occur 
within 1,000 feet of a day care center, school, college or university, 
any public swimming pool, park,


playground, video arcade, or youth center or any events sponsored by 
any such entity.

There is overwhelming evidence that syringe exchange programs when 
implemented as part of a comprehensive prevention strategy are an 
effective public health intervention for reducing HIV/AIDS and 
hepatitis and do not promote drug use.

Now let me be clear. I detest illegal drug use. I think it 
constitutes a national security threat. It ruins lives. It causes 
crime. It gets us into wars against drugs in Colombia and Mexico; and 
in fact, it gets us into another war in Afghanistan because of poppy 
production. So I hate illegal drugs. But even more, I hate the spread 
of AIDS. There's overwhelming evidence that we can help stop the spread 
of AIDS by allowing needle exchange programs. They are endorsed by 
leading public health organizations, such as the Institute of Medicine, 
the World Health Organization, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the 
American Medical Association, the American Nurses Association, the 
American Public Health Association. They are endorsed by people such as 
Dr. Anthony Fauci, the Nation's leading fighter against AIDS; Thomas 
Frieden; former NIH Director Harold Varmus; former Surgeons General C. 
Everett Koop and David Satcher, who served under Republican and 
Democratic administrations. They are endorsed by people such as Captain 
Andrew Smith from the Los Angeles Police Department; Atlantic City 
Deputy Chief of Police Robert Schwartz; and San Francisco Chief of 
Police Frederick Lau.

Let me make one other point. Every Member of Congress has access to 
decent primary health care; but we are going to put at risk a 
substantial number of people if we do not support this underlying 
committee amendment. I want to say something personal. If we lose this 
amendment, it is not going to be because a lot of people on this House 
floor really believe that this ban makes sense. It will be because many 
Members are concerned and fear a cheap-shot political 30-second ad that 
distorts their position, spreads half-truths and scares people. I 
understand that concern.