---
---

# None
## `f3cf38dc17994ee4dad541de6f275b34`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. We can do it together. And I can tell you, Mr. 
Speaker, that it can be done.

Let's just put it this way: It is the new direction versus more of 
the same. There are Members of Congress that are saying that they are 
on board on the new direction. There are troops in Iraq that are saying 
that they are on board for a new direction. And I can tell you from 4 
years on the Armed Services Committee that looking in the eyes of the 
commanders when they come, they are also looking for a new direction. 
And even, Mr. Speaker, when the President puts forth this Iraq Study 
Group that brought forth recommendations on the direction we should 
move in, the President says, thank you very much for your input, I 
appointed you, bipartisan commission, but we are going to send new 
troops to Iraq, and that is the answer.

I am not a Member of Congress with a conspiracy theory, but I will 
say that the President sent the 20,000 additional troops before we had 
an opportunity to really look at what is happening or what has been 
happening in the time that our committee rooms have sat with the lights 
off. We didn't have hearings in the 109th Congress. Nancy Pelosi wasn't 
Speaker of the House. The will and the desire wasn't there to find out 
what is happening with all the supplemental money that we have given 
towards Iraq and Afghanistan and other issues that we paid for that 
didn't go through the regular budget process.

Now we are going to have an opportunity, hopefully, in speaking with 
Mr. Murtha, who is the chairman of the Defense Subcommittee on Defense. 
He is asking questions. They are having hearings. Brass and suits 
together are coming in to answer the tough questions about, well, what 
happened to the money we have already given you?

When you look at companies like--we talked about Halliburton, and we 
talked about some of these other companies that have run away with 
these dollars, we talked about the U.S. troops that are being there, 
let's talk about the mercenaries that are there. Let's talk about the 
hired individuals that are there to carry out missions that are not 
wearing a U.S. flag on their shoulders, but they are contractors to 
carry out security missions for convoys. There are a number of those 
individuals that are dying, and they are not being counted in the troop 
calculation. And many of those individuals, Mr. Speaker, are former 
members of our military Armed Forces. I know for a fact that some of 
these companies are providing even better incentives, much greater, 
sometimes twice that our men and women are earning in uniform. So after 
their time is up, as we give the military their ability, because so 
many individuals have been deployed two and three times, and when their 
time is up as it relates to their service, to get them to reenlist we 
incentivize them not only through monetary means, but also the ability 
to move up the ladder.

At the same time you have the private sector that understands that 
same philosophy, Mr. Speaker and Members, and they are incentivizing 
them to go into the private side of it. And these individuals are 
securing the convoys, securing some of the facilities that are there, 
carrying out some missions. And they are replacing, because we talk 
about the coalition, if you want to break that down, I mean, we have 
U.S. men and women in uniform, and then U.S. contractors. It is not 
Great Britain, it is not some of the other folks that people are 
talking about, the coalition of the few, the United States of America 
and U.S. contractors. Guess what? U.S. taxpayers are paying for that. 
So I think it is important, the issues that we talked about.

I have Senator Warner here, I mentioned him earlier, the Republican 
from Virginia. Basically he is saying after the speech last night, to 
place our U.S. men in the middle of a fight between Sunnis and Shiites 
is not the right time to do that.

You also have Chuck Hagel. Senator Hagel has also said, Republican, 
has said that he thinks the speech that was given last night by the 
President represents the most dangerous foreign policy blunder in this 
country since Vietnam. If it is carried out, he would have to resist 
it. He said, ''I will resist it.'' This is not what Democrats are 
saying. People have heard what we had to say. Now we have Republicans 
that have heard the voice of the American people that are saying, if I 
am going to stay in the U.S. Congress, I am not appointed, I am 
elected, if I am going to stay in the U.S. Congress, I have to follow 
the will and the desire of my constituents and the American people.

I always say, Mr. Murphy, when we are elected from our districts, we 
are federalized to represent an entire country and those that are in 
harm's way. We are talking about training. We are talking about 
tactical missions against terrorists or what have you, not everyday 
street patrol, security patrol on the block. That is where our men and 
women are losing.

We have been talking about training of the troops from the time that 
we were in Baghdad, Mr. Speaker. I can tell you, I am a witness to it, 
I have been on the committee, we have had the testimony. Oh, we are 
training them; and then all of a sudden we find out that the training 
is not keeping up with the need. Well, we have military bases not only 
in Mosul, but Tikrit, also in Baghdad and other spots throughout Iraq 
where those troops can be trained right there.

I look forward, Mr. Speaker, in going to Iraq within the next couple 
of months, Mr. Murphy, I would love to have you join me if you haven't 
gone already, to ask these tough questions on the issue of the training 
issues because now it is under our watch. The American people have 
empowered a majority of the Members who feel the way the American 
people feel, that we need to take care of our mission in Iraq. I am 
pretty sure we will have some presence of troops there for some time, 
but not at these levels, not at the level to where that is not an issue 
of redeployment.

Mr. Murphy, I hate to get preachy on this, but the President has said 
that is up to another President to deal with, another administration to 
deal with, I am not going to do it. Well, like our


good friend Senator Webb said last night, if he doesn't want to take 
the leadership way, then we are going to have to show him the way, the 
Congress.



And the good thing about it, Mr. Speaker, it will be in a bipartisan 
way. It won't be just Democrats. It will be Democrats and Republicans, 
and I welcome that bipartisan spirit