---
---

# None
## `f3db08000fbeb7615de310fccba6aa1e`
`Mr. HATCH â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I am extremely interested in the comments 
of the distinguished junior Senator from Massachusetts. I do not agree 
with much of what he said, and maybe I can comment about some of the 
disagreements as I make my remarks this morning. I will begin by saying 
that on Iraq, absquatulation is not a policy.

Today we face a growing movement for the political abandonment of the 
will to success in the biggest conflict we face in the whole 21st 
century. There are handfuls of people in pink wandering the hallways 
here, and the party in the majority claims a growing groundswell to 
abandon the fight in the midst of the battle.

These are perilous times, and the political class of this country is 
divided among those who desperately want to raise the white flag, those 
who are fleeing to the tall grasses, and a beleaguered administration, 
beleaguered in part--and let us be honest at a time when generosity 
would be misplaced--by many of its own spectacular mistakes.

I hear from constituents who are worried--very worried--about the war 
in Iraq. But Utahns are stalwart in character. Not all of them support 
the President's policy, and not all of them support me, to be sure. But 
I think I am being honest to suggest that the vast majority of my 
constituents are as worried by the prospects of a U.S. unilateral 
withdrawal as they are by the challenges we face in the middle of a 
battle whose end many of my colleagues no longer have the patience to 
imagine, pursue, or achieve.

Such abandonment is not an option for our forces in Iraq.

I gave a speech on this floor several months ago where I said I was 
not going to concede to the Democrats' strategy of unilateral 
withdrawal. I pointed out the irony that the Democrats' 
legitimate criticism of this administration's policy--that the Bush 
administration went into Iraq unprepared for the consequences, and 
without imagining the requirements of the day after we toppled Saddam--
was, in fact, being repeated by the Democrats who now advocate a 
withdrawal without preparing for the consequences, and with no 
consideration of what will happen in Iraq, the region, and the world 
after we decamp. I find this bitterly ironic.


While I agree with many of the criticisms of this administration's 
early failures in the Iraq war, I will not stand quietly against the 
irony--indeed, the hypocrisy--of suggestions that it is OK to abandon a 
war without considering the consequences, but damnable to begin one in 
the same manner.

In the months since I spoke on this floor, where I gave my qualified 
support for the surge, I have listened carefully to the debate on and 
off the floor. I have talked to my colleagues, to administration 
officials, to constituents and friends, here and abroad. I have read 
the intelligence on the prospects for Iraq and the currents in the 
region. I have traveled to Iraq, and I have traveled in the region.

I am a member of the Intelligence Committee, perhaps with the longest 
tenure in the history of the Senate on the Intelligence Committee, and 
I do not find things to be as my colleagues on the other side assert.

Nowhere have I found a silver lining to these clouds of conflict. But 
nowhere have I heard anyone say the clouds are less dark on the 
horizon.

The three major problems I am most concerned about--the al-Qaida 
problem, the Iran problem, and the moral and practical costs of 
abandoning the moderate Iraqis--have not been addressed in any 
substantive way in any of the policy prescriptions I have studied. If 
the majority wants to decamp, they need to propose a policy context 
that makes the United States safer on the day after, not more in peril.

There is an al-Qaida problem.

In May, I went to Ramadi. I was briefed on our base by General 
Gaskin, and then we suited up to go for a walk in the town center. He 
was with us, and walked with us in that town center. That is correct, 
we had to suit up in armor for a walk downtown. This was no Sunday 
stroll for ice cream. But two facts were obvious: One, 6 months before 
we strolled through those downtown streets, Ramadi was al-Qaida's 
capital in Anbar Province and Iraq. On that day, 2 months ago, it was 
the local Sunnis' capital again. And, two, the local Iraqis I saw and 
met in Ramadi were happy to see us there. Had we walked down those same 
streets 2 months ago, we would have been killed.

However you want to criticize the administration for its past errors, 
we now have a workable counterinsurgency plan in operation. It is 
working in Anbar, and al-Qaida is on the defensive.

Are they moving out to other places? We are. Are we following them, 
using the counterinsurgency tactics we have finally mastered? We are. 
Are we going to abandon the field we have learned to dominate? You tell 
me. And we will abandon that field in this very Chamber if we keep 
following what is being spoken to on the other side.

Here is what I learned about our successful counterinsurgency 
campaign from General Gaskin. Al-Qaida declared Ramadi the capital city 
of the Islamic State of Iraq. There were no police in Ramadi last year. 
Al-Qaida in Iraq, or AQI, as we refer to it, had destroyed all the 
police in the city. Starting in mid-February, the coalition cleared the 
downtown in about 6 weeks. There were approximately 15,000 to 20,000 
members of al-Qaida in Anbar initially. Now, about half of them are 
dead. Others are still trying to discredit the Government of Iraq and 
discredit the occupation. They represent us as occupiers, infidels, if 
you will. They advance their goals with brutal methods. All of their 
financing comes from criminal enterprises. Al-Qaida is very cellular, 
decentralized, but resilient and regenerative. They are self-
sufficient, funding themselves through criminal activities--murder, 
intimidation, the black market.

We have finally learned to deal with the Sunni tribes. It took us too 
long to understand the tribes, but al-Qaida did not understand the 
tribal culture either. Al-Qaida's intimidation activities and murder of 
families--including young boys--enraged the local tribes and tribal 
leaders. The tribes' response was their realization that the expanded 
coalition presence was a chance to get al-Qaida out of their lives, and 
they


came to a mutual understanding with coalition forces, sending 1,200 of 
their boys for enlistment in the security forces in 1 day.

That was a turnaround. I was there with Senator Smith approximately a 
year before then. There was no chance at all in that province. But 
because of the counterinsurgency, we have made tremendous strides, and 
they are completely ignored by some here in this Chamber.

But the local population in Ramadi and al-Anbar has helped find two-
thirds of the IEDs in this area. We have promoted the development of a 
neighborhood watch system there. Once you clear, you must leave a 
security presence with coalition support. The locals will not give you 
intel if you do not leave a permanent presence to provide security. In 
the words of General Gaskin: We are asking the Iraqis to gain capacity 
while they are at war. This is very unusual, and it is very difficult.

In counterinsurgency, the most important thing is how well you 
protect the population, and what the level of violence is. We are 
making progress in al-Anbar. Are we going to abandon this progress? As 
General Gaskin put it: It's like someone tells you the ship that you're 
on is on fire. You jump off, but halfway down you discover that it 
wasn't on fire after all. You still have to deal with your decision to 
jump: Either swim or drown.

As I have said, I am not in favor of jumping ship, but for those who 
are, the question is: What are we going to do? Swim or drown?


Last month, two analysts for the Radio Free Iraq service of Radio 
Free Europe/Radio Liberty released a compelling report entitled ''Iraqi 
Insurgency Media: The War of Images and Ideas.''

In addition to cataloging the impressive degree to which the Iraqi 
Sunni insurgency is using the Internet to purvey a constant stream of 
images, propaganda, songs, and other images that glorify the fight 
against the coalition, this report makes clear that this barrage of 
insurgent media is feeding the global extremist network.

According to the report:




 The Iraqi insurgent media network is a boon to global 


 jihadist media, which can use materials produced by the 


 insurgency to reinforce their message.


The images of our precipitous withdrawal will be broadcast endlessly, 
to inspire and incite extremists throughout the world.

In fact, if you talk to the analysts who monitor insurgent media, you 
learn that there are two prevalent themes today. The insurgents, 
including al-Qaida, are very media savvy, and they are avid consumers 
of Western and American media. They watch our floor debates. It is a 
common theme for them today to declare that we will withdraw. In our 
withdrawal, they see victory.

If we abandon the counterinsurgency gains we have made, al-Qaida will 
not only declare global victory and vindication, they will attempt to 
reclaim the territory in Iraq. And don't think anything otherwise.

Nowhere have I seen policy prescriptions from the other side or 
anywhere else, for that matter, other than the counterinsurgency and 
the work that is going on right now to address this problem.

We cannot fight al-Qaida from across the border. And to suggest we 
can protect all our interests by being in the little country of Kuwait 
is absurd. We cannot fight al-Qaida and ignore Baghdad. And we cannot 
walk away from this fight with al-Qaida.

For those who want to withdraw without a policy prescription, all I 
can say is, you may no longer be interested in al-Qaida in Iraq, but 
al-Qaida is interested in the United States, and always has been.

Let's talk about the Iran problem. My colleague from Massachusetts 
mentioned this as though it is not a problem. I am sure he did not mean 
that. If you watch the Sunni insurgency media, you also determine an 
even more prominent theme. They assume, based on watching our media, 
that we will abandon the cause. And they declare an even bigger threat 
is Iran. Nowhere have I read of a compelling policy prescription to 
answer the question of how we will deal with Iran in the aftermath of a 
withdrawal. Iran is competing with the United States in the region. We 
are getting unclassified briefs from Multi-National Force in Iraq 
officers identifying the Iranian agents' role in supporting militias 
and funding explosively-formed penetrators EFPs, if you will--networks, 
which target the coalition.

Iran is playing a dangerous game, not because they solicit an armed 
reaction from us--which they calculate will not occur--but they are 
carefully stoking sectarian and anticoalition conflict, while taking 
advantage of the relative security our military presence provides.

What is our policy toward Iran should we decide to follow the 
prescription to abandon the fight in Iraq? All I have read is a hopeful 
repetition of the desire for a diplomatic solution. I always hope for a 
diplomatic solution. That is always a nice weasel way of hoping we can 
get out of these problems. I also hope to balance the budget, and I 
hope to cure AIDS. We are not making much headway in those, either.

This will not happen based on hope alone, however.

Those who think we can split from Iraq in the middle of the conflict 
and deal with Iran with a Tehran tea party are not just hopeful, they 
are delusional. Iran is a totalitarian regime in desperate economic 
circumstances and desperate economic condition. There have been riots 
over gas-rationing in a nation awash--or should I say rich--in oil.


The population has suffered two generations of economic decline--in a 
nation rich in oil. The rich Persian culture has suffered the 
spectacular mismanagement of a corrupt and despotic regime.

Just several days ago, the Open Source Center provided an analysis of 
Iran's treatment of its labor unions. I quote:




 The abduction of the head of Tehran's transport workers' 


 union is the latest sign of the antagonism shown President 


 Ahmadinejad's government toward trade unions and other civil 


 society institutions. On April 11 it shut down the Iranian 


 Labor News Agency, which often reported on labor discontent 


 arising from Iran's economic failures as well as on student 


 unrest and human rights abuses. Mahumd Osanlu, head of the 


 Workers' Syndicate of the Tehran and Suburban Bus Company, 


 has not been heard from since he was beaten and abducted on 


 July 10 by plainclothesmen, presumably from the government.


Do I need to remind my colleagues that Ahmadinejad ran on a platform 
of helping the lower classes? This is the face of a corrupt and failing 
regime that is causing havoc all over the Middle East. Just ask the 
people in Lebanon, if you want to, but you can also ask the people in 
Iraq.

We are spending about $100 billion a year providing various degrees 
of stability through most of Iraq, stability on Iran's border. If we 
leave, there will be great instability. How will Iran react? My friend 
from Massachusetts seems to think they are not going to do one little 
thing. Once we leave, everything is going to stabilize and it is all 
going to be just wonderful. I don't think he quite went that far, but 
he basically said Iran is not going to do much. But do we have a policy 
in place that will seek to advance our goals of containing the Iranian 
threat, or is the policy of withdrawal hinging simply on the desperate 
desire for diplomacy with despots?

There are moral and practical costs of abandoning the moderates in 
Iraq. I disagree with the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts. 
There are plenty of moderates. There are plenty of the middle class in 
Iraq. Large areas of Iraq are not in turmoil. Large areas of Iraq are, 
but there are plenty of people living there who want this country to 
work. Eighty percent of them voted for freedom and voted for a 
representative form of government.

What are the consequences for the moderates of Iraq if we withdraw? 
There are, in fact, many moderates, many Iraqis intermarried between 
faiths, many Iraqis who are urban professionals, many Iraqi women are 
educated, in contrast to what the al-Qaida people and the Taliban 
people would do to women. All of these are attributes of the moderate 
masses who are today intimidated by the insurgents, by gangsters and 
terrorists, and who are currently failed by Iraqi politicians.

Nonetheless, they are there in significant numbers. They will suffer 
immensely in the chaos that will follow our withdrawal.

If we believe that a principal key to addressing the sources of 
discontent


that fuels violent extremism in the Muslim world was the empowerment of 
the moderate classes seeking modern civil society, our abandonment of 
the cause in Iraq will do more than fuel the ferocious violence of al-
Qaida, the deadly competition fomented by Iran; it will seal our 
ability to appeal to the moderate Muslim elements throughout the world, 
to build civic culture in autocratic societies. Our natural allies in 
these societies--the young and the educated, the professional, the 
women seeking to escape the oppression of the veil--will not respond to 
our entreaties because they will have seen that the United States does 
not continue to stand with its allies. They will see the images of our 
withdrawal. They will see the self-satisfied propaganda of the 
insurgents and al-Qaida, and they will be afraid to be with us.

I fear they will see images of the slaughter of innocents.

They will go back into the shadows, and the shadows of autocracy or, 
even worse, Islamic fascism will grow. We will have squandered not just 
the good will of our natural allies--those who want to modernize into 
peaceful and productive societies--but we will have squandered the 
faith of hundreds of millions throughout the world who will see no 
reason to stand by or with us. Whom will we blame for the slaughter of 
moderates, and whom will we turn to the next time we seek allies in the 
Middle East?

Should those who advocate withdrawal today succeed in their ill-
conceived attempt to run away from reality, reality will not let us 
escape. Without a policy to fight al-Qaida in Iraq, to compete with an 
unstable and adventurous Iran, and to prevent the slaughter of Iraqi 
innocents on a scale much greater than we see today, a withdrawal will 
be calamitous.

The consequences on our ability to conduct foreign policy, to win the 
war on terror, and to advance our values of democracy and peace will be 
immense.

After the capitulation driven by congressional Democrats that led to 
our abandonment of Vietnam in the 1970s, the Soviets became emboldened 
and advanced throughout what was known then as the Third World--in 
Angola, Central America, and Afghanistan. We regained our footing in a 
decade, and we won the Cold War because we found our will. Without a 
strategy to accompany the policy of withdrawal, the consequences--an 
emboldened al-Qaida, aggressive Iran, and intimidated, harassed, and 
slaughtered Iraqi moderates--will haunt us much longer than after our 
Vietnam withdrawal. After all, the Vietnamese did not threaten our 
country. They did not threaten our mainland. These people have, and 
these people continue to threaten our mainland. These people continue 
to say, as was said just a week ago, that they are going to cause havoc 
over here.


I am 73 years old, and I fear that should we concede to the powerful 
call for withdrawal without a sound policy, the harm to this Nation 
will last longer than I have years to live.

The senior Senator from Arizona, Mr. McCain, whom I hold in high 
esteem, quoted General Petraeus earlier, saying that of all the 
resources General Petraeus could have, the one he wanted most was time. 
The one he wanted most was time. This is a very important point, and I 
commend the distinguished Senator from Arizona for making it.

Many people today believe that whatever the outcome this month, we 
have set a deadline for September. I say: Any progress achieved by 
September will be incremental, at best. Counterinsurgencies can be won, 
but they will not be won on a congressional election cycle. We should 
not be so arrogant as to presume we can make them fit into such an 
absurd construct. Let us be honest and admit that if we want to sustain 
the fight in Iraq, we should give it much longer than a September 
deadline. Perhaps in a year, perhaps in two, we can see a success, but 
for this, we need more than time. We need will. That is what I see 
evaporating around all of us here in the Senate.

The majority is waving the flag of withdrawal. There is no 
accompanying policy to shape the way the geopolitical environment will 
be affected. Our enemies will be emboldened, our competitors 
encouraged, and our friends throughout the region will be like me: 
discouraged.

Mr. President, the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts has said 
we are not talking withdrawal; we are talking a redeployment. Who is he 
kidding? We are going to leave a small contingency there to do exactly 
what Secretary Rumsfeld was doing, with an emboldened al-Qaida? Come 
on. I think they are ignoring the fact that the al-Qaida people have 
said they are going to establish a worldwide caliphate and impose their 
will on everybody--especially us.

One thing I would just like to say is they have piled into Iraq. They 
were there before, in spite of what the distinguished Senator has said. 
Maybe not in as great numbers; of course not, but they have piled into 
Iraq knowing that if they defeat us there and we turn tail and run for 
the high grasses, they will have accomplished something they didn't 
even dream they could accomplish 5 years ago.

This is not a simple war. This is not a war against another nation. 
It is not a war where people on the other side wear uniforms. It is a 
war where they commit terror all over the world. It is a war where they 
have threatened us. It a war where they kill innocent human beings. It 
is a war where they don't think anything of sending their young people 
strapped with bombs to blow themselves up, to maim and kill innocent 
civilians.

If we do what our friends on the other side want to do, our enemies 
will be emboldened, our competitors encouraged, and our friends 
throughout the world will lose an awful lot of faith and confidence in 
the United States of America.

Mr. President, absquatulation is not a policy.

I yield the floor.