---
---

# THE COUNTDOWN CREW
## `f3dbf997fc99b66725898d30eb3acd4c`
`Mr. JORDAN of Ohio — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. JORDAN of Ohio. I appreciate the gentleman's yielding. And the 
gentleman is exactly right. Of course we wish things had progressed 
quicker and faster. We wish all our men and women were home. But there 
is good news to talk about. And one fact that I think gets lost 
sometimes, every single life that is lost is a tragedy. We wish it 
didn't happen, whether it is our service men and women in uniform or 
whether it is an Iraqi civilian in that country, but the truth is there 
have been fewer American service men and women killed in 2006 than 
there were in 2005. There were fewer American service men and women 
killed in 2005 than there were in 2004. Of course, you would never know 
that fact if you just listened to the national news every night.

There are good things happening, as the gentleman pointed out. The 
other thing I would just say is this: to get the kind of country that 
we need there and the kind of things happening that we need to happen, 
it is going to take a little time. I am reminded that in 1776 we 
declared independence. We made our quest for liberty and freedom here 
in the United States. It took us 13 years to get a Constitution that 
works and is still serving us well today. And we came from a culture 
that appreciated liberty and appreciated freedom.

It is going to take some time for this nation, which has never really 
known freedom or liberty, to get to that point where they can value 
those principles that make our country so great. So good things are 
happening, and we should talk about those more in our quest to make 
this country work.

I thank the gentleman for yielding.