# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `f3ddd149011f238b170c0b82586a0b27`
`Mr. McCAIN — 29 September 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the amendment strikes funding in the 
Defense appropriations bill for 10 C-17 Globemaster aircraft that we 
neither need nor can afford. My amendment also redirects those funds to 
critically important operations and maintenance accounts which the 
appropriators have seen fit to cut.

At about $250 million per aircraft, the total cost to the taxpayer of 
the C-17 earmark in this bill is $2.5 billion. But how are we paying 
for these aircraft? With the cuts made in the bill, it appears much of 
the offset for paying for the 10 aircraft falls on the O&M accounts. So 
why are we buying C-17s we don't need and can't afford while at the 
same time reducing overall O&M accounts by $3 billion?

I am sure the managers of the bill will justify this cut in 
operations and maintenance. I would rely on the judgment of the 
Secretary of Defense and the Chairman and members of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff who will tell us they need this money for operations and 
maintenance.

I hope my colleagues understand what this really means. If this bill 
passes with these cuts, the Air Force in particular will be forced to 
decrease funding for training, equipment, depot maintenance, and the 
restoration and modernization of air bases across the United States, 
and they would not be alone. The Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and National 
Guard would also come out on the wrong end of these cuts and would be 
forced to reduce funding for facilities sustainment, training, and 
recruiting.

After 8 years of war, the Army's equipment readiness has fallen to 
truly worrisome levels. In testimony before the Armed Services 
Committee this year, Secretary of the Army Pete Geren said:




 Predictable and timely funding is key for us to be able to 


 operate an organization the size of the United States Army. . 


 . .When funding is unpredictable, it makes it very hard to 


 plan long term.


I have seen a hollow Army, deeply degraded in the decade after 
Vietnam and again during the drawdown of the 1990s. Today's forces are 
not in such dire straits as those, but 8 years of war has taken its 
toll on the Army, Marines, Guard, and Reserve component ground forces. 
As GEN George Casey said: ''The current demand for our forces exceeds 
the sustainable supply.''

Particularly in a time of war, I urge my colleagues to invest in the 
recapitalization of our ground forces--not funding aircraft we neither 
need nor can afford with those investments.

Finally, I wish to mention the Army Reserve and National Guard, which 
are, as General Casey described, ''performing an operational role for 
which they were neither originally designed nor resourced.'' In my 
view, any cut to their operations and maintenance accounts will retard 
the ability of these components to fit and deploy for missions at home 
or abroad. And I am sure the Secretary of Defense would say he would 
like a lot more because of the wear and tear and degradation that 
already exists to much of our equipment and capabilities.

We can and must do better. Left uncorrected what we would do in this 
bill is effectively fund the purchase of new aircraft that we neither 
need nor can afford with critical sustainment money. That would have a 
significant impact on our ability to provide the day-to-day operational 
funding that our service men and women and their families deserve.

Let me turn briefly to the merits of the C-17 earmark itself. If some 
of these remarks sound familiar, that is because I was on the floor of 
the Senate less than 3 months ago speaking about C-17s when the Senate 
Appropriations Committee earmarked eight of these cargo aircraft in the 
2009 supplemental appropriations bill at a cost of $2.25 billion. That 
is right. In just 3 months, the Appropriations Committee has set aside 
nearly $5 billion for 18 C-17 aircraft that we don't need, the Pentagon 
doesn't want, and we can't afford.

Against that backdrop, over the last 3 years the White House has 
actively been trying to close down the C-17 production line, asking for 
as much as $500 million per year to shut down the line. But over that 
same period, the appropriators have been working in the exact opposite 
direction to ensure continued funding for the program in supplemental 
war funding bills--bills that


are supposed to be used to fund the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

So despite that the Democrat Department of Defense's overall 
requirements for C-17s continue to sit at 180, the appropriators have 
required the Department to buy through fiscal year 2009 a total of 213 
C-17s, and they have done so before two key studies have been 
completed.

This chart illustrates what is going on. Marked in red we see the C-
17s the appropriators have added. Why? Because our service men and 
women need them? No. In 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010 the Air Force 
budgeted money to close the line each and every year.

Is the reason some sort of new stimulus package which will create new 
jobs? No. That is because, as I mentioned, they have had three dozen 
more C-17s than the Air Force has needed. In fact, right now, the 
backlog of C-17s is such that Boeing will not begin building these 
aircraft earmarked by the appropriators for another 2 years.

In the bill we are debating today, the 10 C-17s the appropriators 
want to fund will bring the total number of C-17s the Senate 
Appropriations Committee has added above any validated military 
requirement to 44. Enough is enough.

According to the most recent Statement of Administration Policy, the 
administration ''strongly objects'' to the addition of $2.5 billion in 
funding for 10 unrequested C-17 aircraft. The Department of Defense's 
own analyses show that the 205 C-17s in the force and on order, 
together with the existing fleet of aircraft, are sufficient to meet 
the Department's future airlift needs even under the most stressing 
conditions.

Secretary Gates has likewise very clearly said that the military has 
no need to buy more C-17s. While Secretary Gates called the C-17--and I 
agree--a ''terrific aircraft,'' he stressed earlier this year that the 
Air Force and U.S. Transportation Command ''have more than necessary'' 
strategic airlift ''capacity'' for airlift over the next 10 years. 
Nonetheless, continuing C-17 production would cost about $3 billion per 
year from 2010 onward.

There is little reason why, in connection with the fiscal year 2010 
budget request, the President not only requested no funding for 
additional C-17s but also recommended this program for termination. In 
light of today's financial exigencies, continuing to spend billions of 
dollars for C-17s the Pentagon doesn't need and can't afford is 
becoming increasingly unsustainable. More so than almost any other 
earmark I have discussed on the Senate floor, this earmark shows our 
priorities are just about the opposite of where they should be.

For that reason, I am persuaded by the strength of Secretary Gates's 
opposition, and I find unacceptable the apparent source of funding for 
this earmark and urge the Members of this body to support my amendment. 
As I mentioned before, the amendment would redirect money from buying 
the C-17s we don't need and can't afford to critically important 
operations and maintenance accounts that are the lifeblood of our 
troops and their families.

So we have a choice with this amendment. We can either continue to 
fund an airplane that the military neither wants nor needs, or we can 
restore the cuts in funding in operations and maintenance which, 
according to the testimony of every military leader, is badly needed 
and wanted. The body will be presented with that choice.

Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on this amendment.