---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f3e2df7eae63d44d83feae68b0e7a176`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. I thank you, Chairman Reyes, of the Intelligence 
Committee.

Madam Speaker, this resolution before the House today is very clear: 
Congress and the American people support our troops who serve bravely 
in Iraq, and Congress disapproves of President Bush's decision to send 
an additional 20,000 troops to Iraq.

There is not a Member of this body who does not pray for our Nation's 
success in Iraq and in the global war on terror. Our brave servicemen 
and women have performed in Iraq with valor and honor. They have done 
everything that a grateful Nation has asked of them since the beginning 
of the war.

Whether you are for or against the war, we must support our troops. 
This resolution does that.

The only people sacrificing in this war are the troops and their 
families. Many military personnel have served two and three tours of 
duty. It has been difficult on their families here at home. More than 
3,100 of our finest sons and daughters have given the ultimate 
sacrifice for their country. More than 25,000 troops have been wounded.

I do not believe we need new troops in Iraq. I believe we need a new 
strategy in Iraq. The current strategy is clearly not working.

We have increased the number of American troops in the past, and it 
has not done anything to calm the violence. In fact, in certain 
circumstances the violence has increased. Even General Abizaid, 
commander of U.S. forces in the Middle East has stated, ''More American 
forces prevent the Iraqis from doing more, from taking more 
responsibility for their own future.'' I completely agree with him.

I serve on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence; I 
have been to Iraq four times and have met with America's top generals, 
U.S. and Iraqi troops, and Iraqi elected officials. We must give the 
Iraqis more responsibility to take control of their own country. We 
must cut the apron strings and let the Iraqis patrol their own streets. 
American troops will guard the perimeter areas and back up the Iraqis 
in an emergency. I call this the Perimeter Plan.

Redeploying troops to perimeter areas, the Green Zone, and lowering 
the profile of American forces will break the dependency the Iraqi 
military has on U.S. forces.

The Iraqis will gain more confidence in their own ability to secure 
their own country, and we will begin bringing our men and women home.

It has been said by my friends on the other side of the aisle that 
the Democrats don't have a plan. That is not true. Other Members of our 
party have a plan and I have a plan. In fact, I shared the Perimeter 
Plan with the President and members of his Cabinet on two occasions at 
the White House. I also gave a copy of the Perimeter Plan to the Iraqi 
Study Group that reviewed it before issuing its recommendations that 
have been largely ignored by the President. This is not cut and run 
like some on the other side of the aisle would like you to believe. It 
is a way to force the Iraqis to take more control of their country, 
while also allowing the U.S. military to do what it does best.

We have some of the best operations forces, Marines and Rangers, and 
the best technology in the world. These forces can focus on backing up 
the Iraqi military.

As Thomas Payne insisted during the American Revolution: ''We need to 
let those who want independence test their will and try their soul.'' 
More American troops hinder the Iraqi democracy from testing its soul, 
and hurt the world in the global war on terror. More than $400 billion 
has been spent on this war by American taxpayers with little or no 
oversight by Congress. From the invasion of Iraq and the start of the


war, a Republican House and Republican Senate have given the President 
almost whatever he wanted both in money and strategic resources. The 
days of the blank check are over. The stakes are too high to allow this 
money and resources to be spent unchecked.

In the first 6 weeks of this new Congress, the Democrats have held 52 
House and Senate hearings on Iraq. We are conducting oversight and 
holding the administration accountable.

Iraq was not a hotbed for terrorists before the war, but it is now. 
The country has become a magnet for those who want to harm Americans 
and Iraqis and disrupt a new democracy. Terrorists have used Iraq 
against us to recruit and spread their twisted ideology worldwide.

But the global war on terror is much more than Iraq. While we are 
spending much of our precious resources in Iraq, we are not focused on 
fighting terrorism worldwide. We are taking our eye off the ball. We 
must refocus our efforts on other parts of the Middle East, Asia, South 
America, Africa, and other parts of the world. Good intelligence is the 
best defense against terrorism. This takes resources. We must 
prioritize where we put our money. It is not about Republicans or 
Democrats. It is about all Americans and keeping this country safe for 
our children and our grandchildren.

Madam Speaker, this is a critical moment in the war in Iraq. More 
troops will not help Iraq. A new strategy will.

Democracy is rooted in independence and self-sustainment. By 
implementing the Perimeter Plan, we encourage the Iraqis to take 
control of their own country. This strategy will allow us to be 
successful in Iraq and win the war on terror. This is why we must vote 
for this resolution. I urge Members to support it