---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `f3e40fe758241cb3331f0e55ae3770e6`
`Ms. LANDRIEU — 22 May 2008`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Madam President, I rise to speak in support of the 
supplemental bill that was put together by many Members, actually, on 
both sides of the aisle, who believe that, yes, we should expedite 
funding for our troops in the field, but also there are emergencies 
right here at home, as eloquently described earlier this morning in the 
remarks of the Senator from Maryland and the Senator from Washington 
State.

I would like to add some words to their arguments. First of all, I 
realize there is an emergency and a war and conflict going on in Iraq 
and international incidents around the world that deserve the attention 
and support of this body. But there are also emergencies right here at 
home and imminent and ongoing threats.

This chart basically says it all. It is a frightening chart to me, a 
depressing chart, but it is reality. The reality is, since 1955 through 
2005, this is the track of hurricanes that have hit the United States. 
Some of these are category 1, some are category 2, but dozens of them 
are categories 4 and 5. This track is Hurricane Katrina in yellow and 
Hurricane Rita in blue, which devastated large parts of Louisiana and 
Mississippi, even going into Alabama and Texas--flooding thousands of 
homes and killing 2,000 people plus along the gulf coast. The 
predictions are that these kinds of storms are going to get more 
frequent and worse.

There is nothing we can do to prevent hurricanes. This is Mother 
Nature. We have just seen it explode in China and in Burma. It is 
frightening to a civilized society. We get in strong buildings like 
this and think that nothing can hurt us; surely no water could reach us 
or wind destroy us. Then Mother Nature appears in a very violent way 
sometimes and reminds us how vulnerable we all are.

In the United States, we just don't cry about these things and wring 
our hands. We do something. We, the States, local and Federal 
Governments appropriate funding to build the right kind of levees and 
dams, and we provide the right paradigm or framework for insurance 
because that is the way we protect ourselves. Hopefully, we have 
infrastructure that will not fail when the pressure comes; and then 
insurance, if it does come, to help people who have lost so much get 
back on their feet. That is all we can do. It would be good if we would 
do that.

But if we vote against this bill today, we are not taking the 
necessary steps to get that done. Again, this is a depressing chart to 
me. I don't like to see it, but I put this up in my office to remind 
myself that this is not just about Katrina and Rita, which we will be 
marking the anniversary of on August 29--3 years--and then September 
24, 3 years for Rita, two of the most destructive storms to hit the 
United States. I remind myself that New York is in danger, New Jersey 
is in danger, and South Carolina and North Carolina are in danger. And 
Florida, in 2005, had the worst storm season of the century, according 
to the Senator from Florida.

Briefly, referring to this chart, this is the area that went 
underwater in New Orleans, this region--New Orleans and Jefferson and 
St. Bernard. Some say: Why don't you all just relocate? That would be a 
very expensive proposition, and impossible, for any number of reasons. 
One, about 1 million people live in the metropolitan area; two, the 
mouth of the Mississippi River is something that the people of 
Mississippi and Louisiana most certainly think is an important asset to 
the country--so important that Thomas Jefferson, when he was President, 
leveraged the entire Federal Treasury to purchase it. We put all of our 
defenses along the river to defend it. You cannot close this river. The 
people who work on the river and contribute to the assets of the 
country cannot go live in Arkansas or north Texas or north Mississippi. 
They need to live close to the coast for all of the important energy 
that comes.

The city is no longer underwater. The water is long gone, but the 
tears are still there and the pain is still there and the frightening 
part is still there because the start of the hurricane season is just 
right around the corner, June 1. We have reports in the paper today 
that there is some leakage in the same canal that breached and 
destroyed over 10,000 homes--or more, actually--in the Lakeview area, 
which is a solid middle-class area.

This is a picture from the Times-Picayune today. In this bill, there 
is about $7 billion for levees, to finish the construction of levees 
that broke--Federal levees that should have held and didn't. We are in 
a mad dash to get these levees and this infrastructure rebuilt 
strongly, correctly, and safely so people can begin to rebuild this 
city higher, yes, and stronger, yes. But no one living in the middle of 
a city or urban area should have to go to bed at night and wonder when 
they wake up if they will be in 8 feet of water or 12 feet.

This is the 17th Street Canal, and you have seen this many times in 
pictures. That is what is in this bill. I urge my colleagues to vote 
yes on the supplemental.

I ask unanimous consent for 2 more minutes.