---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SENATOR RUSS FEINGOLD
## `f3e77b9e078e4498c27513b132483d7a`
`Mr. McCAIN — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I want to say a few words about a friend 
and colleague whom I will miss very much when he leaves the Senate 
after we adjourn, Senator Russ Feingold. I cannot thank him for his 
service without mentioning the outstanding work of his capable staff: 
Mary Irving, his chief of staff; Sumner Slichter, his policy director; 
Bob Schiff, chief counsel; and Paul Weinberger, his legislative 
director, a loyal and outstanding team.

Without intending it as a commentary on his successor, I have to 
confess I think the Senate will be a much poorer place without Russ 
Feingold in it. I know that in my next term I will experience fewer 
occasions of inspiration because of the departure of Russ Feingold, a 
man whose courage and dedication to the principles that guided his 
Senate service often inspired me.

I will also miss the daily experience of Russ Feingold's friendship, 
and the qualities that distinguish his friendship, his thoughtfulness, 
kindness, humor and loyalty. I have treasured that friendship all the 
years we have served together, and while friendship does not end with a 
Senate career, I will sorely miss his presence. I will miss seeing him 
every day. I will miss traveling with him. I will miss the daily 
reminder of what a blessing it is to have a true friend in Washington.

Our first encounter with one another was in a Senate debate in which 
we argued about an aircraft carrier, somewhat heatedly, if memory 
serves. Russ thought the U.S. Navy had one too many. I thought we did 
not have enough. It was, I am sorry to admit, not a very considerate 
welcome on my part to a new colleague, whom I would soon have many 
reasons to admire. But to Russ's credit, he did not let my discourtesy 
stand in the way of working together on issues where we were in 
agreement. And to my good fortune, he did not let it stand in the way 
of our friendship either.

We are of different parties and our political views are often 
opposed.

We have had many debates on many issues. But where we agreed on 
wasteful spending, ethics reform, campaign finance reform and other 
issues, it was a privilege to fight alongside and not against Russ 
Feingold.

We do not often hear anymore about Members of Congress who 
distinguish themselves by having the courage of their convictions; who 
risk their personal interests for what they believe is in the public 
interest. I have seen many examples of it here, but the cynicism of our 
times, among the political class and the media and the voters, tends to 
miss examples of political courage or dismiss them as probable frauds 
or, at best, exceptions that prove the rule. In his time in the Senate, 
Russ Feingold, every day and in every way, had the courage of his 
convictions. And though I am quite a few years older than Russ, and 
have served in this body longer than he has, I confess I have always 
felt he was my superior in that cardinal virtue.

We were both up for re-election in 1998. I had an easy race. Russ had 
a difficult one. As many of our colleagues will remember, Russ and I 
opposed soft money, the unlimited corporate and labor donations to 
political parties that we believed were compromising the integrity of 
Congress, and we were a nuisance on the subject. Russ 's opponent in 
1998 was outspending him on television, and the race became tighter. It 
reached a point where most observers, Democrats and Republicans, 
expected him to lose. The Democratic Party pleaded with Russ to let it 
spend soft money on his behalf. Russ refused. He risked his seat, the 
job he loved, because his convictions were more important to him than 
any personal success. I think he is one of the most admirable people I 
have ever met in my life.

We have had a lot experiences together. We fought together for many 
things, important things. And we have fought many times on opposite 
sides. We have been honored together and scorned together. We have 
traveled abroad together. We could not be farther apart in our views on 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, but we traveled there together as 
well, to gain knowledge that would inform our views and challenge them. 
We have listened to each other; debated each other; defended each 
other; joked and commiserated together.

And in my every experience with Russ Feingold, in agreement and 
disagreement, in pleasant times and difficult ones, in heated arguments 
and in the relaxed conversation of friends, he was an exemplary public 
servant; a gentleman; good company; an irreplaceable friend; a kind 
man; a man to be admired.

I can not do justice in these remarks to all of Russ's many qualities 
or express completely how much I think this institution benefited from 
his service here and how much I benefited from knowing him. I lack the 
eloquence. I do not think he is replaceable. We would all do well to 
keep his example in our minds as we serve our constituents and country 
and convictions. We could not have a better role model.

I have every expectation we will remain good friends long after we 
have both ended our Senate careers. But I will miss him every day. And 
I will try harder to become half the public servant he is. Because his 
friendship is an honor and honors come with responsibilities.

God bless my friend Russ Feingold.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.