---
---

# None
## `f3fac1be6f4e998ea92dc8206e91451b`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. I thank my colleague.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of the eight American heroes from 
Louisville, Kentucky, who were taken from us in the prime of their 
lives these last 5 years.

While they did not serve together, they all shared a special bond of 
selfless dedication, love of country, and


immeasurable courage. Those noble qualities did not originate when they 
volunteered to serve in the Armed Forces, but their time serving 
greatly enhanced and magnified those attributes. In his service, each 
man proved the valor time and time again, readily meeting every 
challenge that confronted him with loyalty and devotion. Tragically, 
and long before we were ready to say good-bye, these brave souls made 
the ultimate sacrifice while fighting for the United States of America, 
seven in Operation Iraqi Freedom and one in Afghanistan in Operation 
Enduring Freedom.

Still, for all they shared, these men were also characterized by a 
wonderful individuality: an incredible athlete and officer, a great dad 
who would have been a great coach, a third generation warrior called to 
heaven before he could answer another call to preach the Word of God, a 
peacekeeper in Bosnia who wanted to come home to Louisville and 
continue to keep the peace in his hometown, an EMS worker known for 
empathy, an unflappable National Guardsman, a decorated military 
officer, and a poet and performer who could light up the stage and 
brighten your day.

Some of these men were known for their sense of humor, others by a 
sense of purpose, and with each of them, their fellow servicemembers 
knew they could be depended upon in the most dire circumstances. The 
men we honor today saved lives, and every one of them is an American 
hero.

Some of them spent a short time in the military; others spent half 
their lives in the service. And all gave their lives for this country, 
for our history, for our citizens, and most of all, for our future.

We are, each one of us, poorer for their loss but infinitely richer 
for the time they spent on this planet and the contributions that they 
made to our community and this Nation.

For the families who lost a son, a husband, a father, and for the 
many who lost a good friend, this is a wound that time can never fully 
heal. The grief we all share for their loss is not fleeting and demands 
a memorial of equal permanence. In recognition of these great heroes, I 
am proposing legislation to rename the Hikes Point Post Office the Iraq 
and Afghanistan Fallen Military Heroes of Louisville Memorial Post 
Office in my congressional district, the Third District of Kentucky.

As our friends, neighbors, and I conduct our daily business in our 
community, this building will stand in testament for the tremendous 
sacrifice made by eight brave Louisvillians. When their families see 
the memorial, I hope they are reminded they are not alone in their 
grief, not alone in their appreciation for the deeds of these men, and 
not alone in the celebration of the lives of eight extraordinary 
individuals who gave us everything they had in their short time on 
Earth.

Sergeant Michael Acklin II, Captain Clayton Lee Adamkavicius, Lance 
Corporal Robert Lynch, Sergeant Darrin K. Potter, Sergeant First Class 
Christopher Phelps, Staff Sergeant George S. Rentschler, Petty Officer 
Third Class Jeffrey L. Wiener, and Sergeant David Neil Wimberg.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to join me in offering these 
men this honor which will have the same permanence as their positive 
impact on our country, by renaming the Hikes Point Post Office the Iraq 
and Afghanistan Fallen Military Heroes of Louisville Memorial Post 
Office.