---
---

# None
## `f41b23c23ed1e432871e835b15c5ef3c`
`Mr. REID — 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, ''We should not cause uncertainty or 
hardship for our Armed Forces.'' The senior Senator from Mississippi, a 
Republican, said that.

''Playing politics with the critical funding that our troops need now 
is political theater of the worst kind.'' The junior Senator from 
Texas, a Republican, said that.

''Our obligation to those troops must transcend politics.'' The 
junior Senator from Arizona, the Republican whip, said that.

''Every day we don't fund our troops is a day their ability to fight 
this war is weakened.'' The senior Senator from Kentucky, the 
Republican leader, said that.

And yet not a single one of these Republican Senators, not a single 
one of the 40 Republicans in this body, has committed to renewing our 
commitment to our troops before the funding expires later today.

We are voting at this rare late hour, but not even the darkness 
outside can conceal the game being played inside this Senate Chamber. 
We are here in the middle of the night, but the reason is as clear as 
day. Senate Republicans so desperately want to turn their backs on 
Americans who are suffering and dying for want of decent health care--
45,000 a year, 750,000 bankruptcies, 14,000 losing their insurance 
every day--that they are turning their backs on America's troops at 
wartime.

Rarely has the Senate seen such a sad statement. Rarely have I seen 
such brazen irresponsibility, and rarely have our Nation's citizens 
received such little regard from their leaders.

Our sons and daughters are fighting tonight and every night in the 
deserts of Iraq and in the bitter cold mountains and valleys in 
Afghanistan on our behalf. The least we can do is make sure they have 
the training and equipment they need to succeed--the least we can do.


Our Nation's bravest spend month after month half a world away from 
their families and children. The least we can do is make sure those 
military families and children who have already sacrificed so much can 
get the health care they need.

Our Nation's most selfless men and women volunteer for duty. We have 
an


all-volunteer Army. Every single one stepped forward to serve. They 
volunteered. The least we can do is to give them the well-deserved pay 
raise they need.

I received a letter, as has been announced here a few hours ago. The 
letter that Senator Durbin and the senior Senator from Michigan talked 
about is a letter addressed to me. He let me know he has no patience 
for the partisan games being played and no time for the precious hours 
that are being wasted. He expressed, in his words, serious concern that 
this Senate might cause ''a serious disruption in our military efforts 
around the world.'' But Secretary Gates added this:




 It is inconceivable to me that such a situation would be 


 permitted to occur with United States forces actively 


 deployed in combat.


I agree. I couldn't agree more. I am going to vote for this bill in 
support of every single one of those servicemembers, including the 
hundreds of Nevadans who at this very moment fight for our Nation in 
other nations around the world.

I will vote yes because I support the 432 men and women from the 
221st Armored Cavalry from Las Vegas and the 102 men and women from the 
152nd Air Guard in Reno, both of which serve in Afghanistan. There are 
other Nevadans serving around the world.

Those on the other side of the aisle have stubbornly said they will 
not. The Senate Republican leadership has shamelessly turned the 
funding of our military into a purely partisan exercise. They can make 
all the excuses they want. We are here at 1 o'clock in the morning 
because of the Republicans. We could have voted for this bill 2 days 
ago. I even had some Republican Senators tell me, regretfully and 
regrettably--they have admitted this to me personally, they have told 
me plainly that while they want to support our troops, they fear 
retribution from their own leaders. Retribution from their own leaders.

We know Senators on this side of the aisle have made commitments to 
vote for this. That is not exactly what John Kennedy, who was not only 
President of the United States but a war hero who served in this very 
body, would call a profile in courage.

I am confident not a single one of our troops could care less whether 
the leaders who give them what they need to succeed are progressives or 
conservatives. I am certain these men and women on deployment after 
deployment spend more time counting the days until they see their loved 
ones again than they do counting the political points scored on either 
side.

My vote in support of these soldiers, sailors, marines, and airmen 
has nothing to do with the party with which I am affiliated and 
everything to do with the country for which I took an oath to support 
and defend.

Although it is shortly after midnight here in Washington, DC, our 
Nation's Capital, it is late morning on the battlefields of Iraq and 
Afghanistan. When the Sun rises over this city, this great city of 
Washington, a few hours from now, you will be able to see out those 
windows on the west side of this Capitol and see past the great 
monuments of Washington and Lincoln, and you will be able to see the 
Potomac River and see the skyline break for the great lawn of 
Arlington. Within that consecrated ground, in neat rows that rise and 
fall with the rolling hills, lie the remains of men and women, boys and 
girls who fought and fell for our flag.

Their headstones are simple, and from a distance they are identical. 
No matter how closely you look at the words and symbols etched in those 
solemn marble gravestones, you will never be able to discern whether 
that warrior beneath was a Democrat, an Independent, or a Republican. 
We cannot tell for whom he voted in the last election of his life or 
what she thought of this policy or that policy. That is not by 
accident. That is not an oversight.

While the demarcations of left and right, of red and blue seem so 
important to the daily lives as air and water to some of us, those 
stones are eternal reminders of such triviality. Dedication to this 
Nation above all else--''All For Our Country,'' which is Nevada's 
motto, should guide us now. On this hill, on this side of the river, in 
this early morning hour, we can stand a little more of selflessness we 
too often keep at a distance on the sacred ground we call Arlington.

I ask unanimous consent that the vote begin.
















 Cloture Motion
