---
---

# None
## `f437ca5d32e1f9046a5d36506fdd816d`
`Ms. CASTOR — 1 October 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 640, to 
honor the sacrifices and commitments of the men, women, and families of 
the United States Transportation Command, or TRANSCOM.

Today marks the 20th anniversary of TRANSCOM's activation at Scott 
Air Force Base in Illinois, and I would like to thank my colleague from 
Illinois (Mr. Costello) for bringing this measure before the House.

Charged with the vital duty of providing air, land and sea 
transportation for the Department of Defense, both in times of peace 
and war, TRANSCOM consists of the Air Mobility Command, the Military 
Surface Deployment and Distribution Command, and the Military Sea Lift 
Command.

Established in 1978, TRANSCOM is the single manager of America's 
global defense transportation system, and its skilled coordination 
allows our country to project and sustain our Armed Forces whenever, 
wherever and for as long as they are needed.

Responding quickly and effectively to the demands of our warfighting 
commanders, TRANSCOM first proved its crucial capability during 
Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm, with the movement 
of more than 500,000 passengers, 3.7 million tons of dry cargo, and 6.1 
million tons of petroleum products in only 7 months.

TRANSCOM has continued to serve the Nation and the world through many 
contingency and peacekeeping operations around the globe. It has 
supported numerous humanitarian relief operations, transporting 
supplies to victims of foreign and domestic natural disasters.

Following the terrorist attacks of September 11, TRANSCOM became an 
especially vital asset to our Nation, supporting our Armed Forces in 
Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom.

From October 2001 to September 2007, TRANSCOM and its components have 
transported approximately 4 million passengers, 9 million tons of 
cargo, and over 4 billion gallons of fuel. House Resolution 640 honors 
these great achievements and the men and women who make them happen.

TRANSCOM provides a vital service to our Nation and enables our Armed 
Forces to carry out their missions effectively and efficiently.

I hope you will join me today in congratulating TRANSCOM on its 20th 
anniversary, and expressing gratitude to the 155,000 men and women who 
comprise it for their continued sacrifice and commitment to this 
country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support House Resolution 640.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

