# DISCONTINUING BUSINESS AS USUAL
## `f4471d01b8912cb38d701927fc457070`
`Mr. CRAIG â€” 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. CRAIG. Why I object to this--and I call this bill the ''Robin 
Hood in reverse'' bill--is quite simple. If any of you have watched the 
Ken Burns PBS series ''The War,'' there is one whole segment of that 
about the war in the Philippines and the Filipinos who came forward to 
fight with Americans and even serve in American uniforms in defense of 
their land and ours during World War II. They did not become American 
citizens. They were Filipinos, and they have always received benefits. 
But this bill now reaches in and takes money away from our veterans, 
our poor veterans, because of a court case and is giving it to them.

Here is my problem. First of all, they do not live in this country, 
and they are not U.S. citizens. They are currently receiving benefits. 
But for the average U.S. veteran, their benefits, right now under law, 
cannot exceed $10,929 a year. That is roughly 24 percent of the average 
U.S. household income. But this benefit which is in this bill gives to 
a veteran--a non-U.S. citizen, living in the Philippines--100 percent 
of the average household income in the Philippines. They are taking 
that money away from our veterans to do it. That is the ''Robin Hood in 
reverse'' effect. At least Robin Hood, when he took money, left it in 
Nottingham. He spread it out amongst his own. Here we are taking money 
from our own and sending it all the way to the Philippines.

Now, let me say, and let me be very clear, Americans have treated 
Filipino veterans fairly. After the war, the United States provided 
$620 million--or $6.7 billion in today's dollars--to repair the 
Philippines. The United States provided $22.5 million--$196 million in 
today's dollars--for equipment and construction. We have a hospital in 
the Philippines, and Filipino veterans legally residing in the United 
States--in the United States--are fully eligible for all VA veterans' 
benefits based on their level of service. Survivors of Filipino 
veterans who died as a result of their service are eligible for 
educational assistance and all kinds of programs.

That is why I object. First of all, because we are taking money away 
from ours, but also because we have been more than generous since that 
war ended to our comrades, the Filipinos, who fought side by side with 
American men and women, who were in the Philippines at the time, after 
we were able to reclaim the Philippine Islands. So we have done 
wonderfully by them, and we have been very supportive of providing them 
with programs.

Remember, the average U.S. veterans' benefit--24 percent of U.S. 
average household income--is limited. Yet we are taking that money away 
from them now, giving it to Filipino veterans who are non-U.S. 
citizens, and increasing their benefit to over 100 percent of the 
average household income in the Philippines. U.S. dollars spent in the 
Philippines at that amount lifts--there is no question about it--lifts 
that Filipino dramatically. The question is, Is it fair? Is it 
equitable? My answer is, It is not. I offered to say, yes, we can bump 
them a little bit, but let's take the rest of this money and put it 
into educational benefits for our veterans coming out of Iraq and 
Afghanistan. The answer in the committee was no.

So that is why these bills are in trouble on the floor. They have 
loaded them up. They are too heavy. The tires are blowing out from 
under the trucks of these bills simply because too much is too much. In 
the instance of this, Disabled American Veterans--that great 
organization which is a loud spokesperson for our veterans--is saying: 
Whoa, wait a moment here. Enough is enough, and this is too much. They 
themselves oppose this legislation as it is currently written.

So here we have a funding bill on the floor with a 17.5- to 18-
percent increase over last year's funding for veterans, and we are not 
allowed to vote on it. We have funding at the highest level ever for 
America's veterans, as we should and as we must, but these bills take 
us well beyond it in an unfunded environment or in one instance 
reaching in the pocket of our poor and disabled veteran and taking that 
money out and putting it into the pocket of a veteran living in the 
Philippines, who never became an American citizen, and who never came 
to this country, who has chosen to stay in his homeland. We now give 
them benefits, but this is a benefit well beyond what is even currently 
being offered to our own. Those are the fundamental reasons why we have 
objected.


I was pleased when the Senator from Texas said to the Senator from 
Illinois, the assistant majority leader: No. Yes, we will object, and 
we are not embarrassed about doing it, because there have to be 
priorities to our funding, especially at a time when the VA budget that 
is at the desk is the largest increase of a veterans' budget, to my 
knowledge, ever. We are proud of that, but there is a point when enough 
is, in fact, enough.

I yield the floor.