---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f4502ac95962d66585c2e05c99d007e8`
`Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 12/1/2/ minutes.

Mr. Chairman, first off, I would like to start off this debate by 
paying a compliment to the gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Spratt). 
The gentleman from South Carolina is just that. He is a gentleman. He 
is a good man, he is a man who has a tough job, and he is a man who I 
enjoy working with.

The key to this year's budget debate is not whether Congress should 
balance the Federal budget. Republicans and Democrats this year are 
agreeing that we need to balance the Federal budget. The key is about 
how we are going to get there.

Today, as this House debates both the Democrats' and the Republicans' 
budget proposals for fiscal year 2008, it will become clear that this 
is much more than a simple discussion about numbers and how they add up 
over the next few years. Instead, this is going to be a bigger debate 
about our different governing philosophies, about what kind of society 
we envision, about what kind of country we want to leave to future 
generations.

The budget that the Democrats have proposed is true to their 
philosophy. I give them credit for that. They believe that more 
government is better government and that the best way to solve the 
myriad problems we face in this country is to spend more and more and 
to tax our people more and more to pay for that spending.

The Democrats' budget reflects this philosophy by calling for the 
largest tax increase in American history. I will make this irrefutably 
clear throughout the course of this debate: They call for immense new 
spending and postponement of critical entitlement reforms for another 5 
years.

If Congress passes this budget tomorrow, this will enshrine the 
raising of taxes to the tune of $400 billion on the American family, 
worker and business. And we are not just talking about raising taxes on 
the rich, as they would like to have us believe. We are talking about 
raising taxes on every single American income tax payer. This means 
raising marginal income tax rates on all taxpayers; eliminating the 10 
percent bracket that has benefited numerous low-income individuals; 
raising the tax on capital gains and dividends and discouraging 
investment in our economy and saving for our seniors; slashing the 
child tax credit in half; reinstating the marriage tax penalty; 
reimposing the death tax; and eliminating the State and sales tax 
deduction for States like Texas and Florida.

Let me just show you where the lie is. It is not in the numbers. The 
lie is in the so-called reserve funds. They can give you all the words 
they want. They can say they put all these fancy words in this budget 
that says we don't want to raise taxes, we want this new spending. But 
what a budget resolution is is a bunch of numbers, and numbers don't 
lie, Mr. Chairman.

This budget requires, banks on, plans for, assumes, insists upon the 
largest tax increase in American history. Otherwise, they don't balance 
the budget.

So my friends on the other side of the aisle can have it one way or 
the other, but not both. They can say they are balancing the budget. 
But, according to their budget, they therefore have to raise taxes. Or 
they can say they are not raising taxes, at which hand they then are 
not balancing the budget. They can't have it both ways.



The line, the red line, which is the revenue baseline, does not lie.

Now, their revenue numbers show it. And they can bring in all the 
left-leaning think tanks that have been in favor of tax increases in 
the past and in the present to say that this isn't a tax increase, but 
come December 10, January 31, that is the last day people have a $1,000 
tax credit. It is the last day married couples won't be taxed for being 
married. It is the last day the death tax isn't at zero. It is the last 
day income tax rates don't go up across the board. That is what 
happens.

They have also made more than $100 billion worth of additional 
spending


promises in this budget, if they are offset. That's what all these 
reserve funds are about; more money for this program, more for that 
program, more money for this program, maybe some tax relief for the 
middle class. We have a reserve fund for it. My friends, a reserve fund 
is worth less than the paper it's printed on because all it says is we 
have these priorities, these ideas, these things we would like to do, 
we have no money for it; middle-class tax relief, more money for SCHIP, 
farm programs.

But if we did come up with the money to pay for these programs, we 
would like to do it; but we don't have the money, so we're not doing 
it. That is basically what a reserve fund is.

What we really have here, Mr. Chairman, is a huge tax increase, a tax 
increase that will have the effect of significantly increasing the 
burden on individual taxpayers and small businesses and will completely 
ignore the positive growth impacts that these tax cuts encouraged since 
2003.

Let's review some of the effects that low tax burdens have had on 
economic growth, on jobs. Before we provided tax relief in 2003, we 
were losing an average of 100,000 jobs a month. Since then, we have 
added 7.6 million new jobs; about 170,000 new jobs have been created 
per month since the tax relief.

The economy. Before tax relief occurred in 2003, the economy grew at 
an average rate of 1.1 percent. Now it has been 3.5 percent since then, 
faster than it has grown in the last three decades, on average.

Unemployment. When we passed tax relief, the unemployment rate was at 
6.1 percent, now it's all the way down to 4.5 percent.

Business investment. When we passed tax relief, business investment 
had been down for nine straight quarters. Since then, business 
investment has been up for 15 straight quarters. That is where the 7.6 
million new jobs got created. Unfortunately, the Democrat budget would 
ignore all of this, with immense tax increases that threatened to put 
us right back where we were in the recession of 2001.

And now on revenues. What they will tell you is that the revenues are 
the reason why we are in deficit. What they will tell you is that the 
tax cuts drove us deeply into deficits. That is completely untrue. On 
the contrary. If you take a look at this chart, the tax relief actually 
had the effect of increasing job creation and revenues coming into the 
Federal Government.

We had 3 straight years of revenue decline during the recession. The 
tax cuts kicked in. What happened? Revenues went up exponentially, to 
the point where we have had double digit revenue gains for the last 3 
years, and as a consequence, the deficit has been going down. These 
surging revenues have been a key factor in reducing this deficit.

Mr. Chairman, the wrong way to balance the budget is to raise taxes. 
The right way to balance the budget is to control spending. We do not 
have a revenue problem in Washington. Money is coming in very quickly 
from taxpayers. What we have here is a spending problem. And the 
Democrats are making it worse because they are calling for all this new 
spending.

For all of their talk about reducing the deficit, all they have done 
since they came into the majority is to spend more and more money, and 
we are only into the end of March. First they passed the omnibus bill 
that added $6 billion in new spending. Next came the supplemental for 
the warfighters in Iraq and Afghanistan; they added $21 billion in 
unrelated and unrequested spending. And now their budget resolution 
adds another $24 billion in new spending next year alone.

For all the additional spending and gimmicks, the worst thing about 
this budget is not just the tax increases and the new spending, it's 
about what it does not include. This budget does nothing, absolutely 
nothing, to address our entitlement problem. This is what needs to be 
fixed, Mr. Chairman.

We had all these eyewitnesses, all these experts come from the left 
and the right that the majority called, from the GAO to CBO to other 
groups, all talking about the fact that our Nation is facing a fiscal 
crisis, that entitlements are growing out of control, that our primary 
responsibility in crafting our budget should be to address entitlement 
spending. Let me read some quotes from the Democrats' own witnesses.

The Comptroller General of the GAO has called the rising costs of 
government entitlements a fiscal cancer that threatens catastrophic 
consequences for our country and could bankrupt America. The Chairman 
of the Federal Reserve came to testify. He said, ''Without early and 
meaningful action to address the rapid growth of entitlements, the U.S. 
economy could be weakened, with future generations bearing much of the 
cost.'' Even the Democrats' own witnesses from the Concord Coalition 
testified to the same.

They've heard all of these witnesses, they've heard all these 
warnings, and they have chosen in this budget to do nothing. There is 
not a single reform, a single dollar of savings from entitlements. 
Obviously, they seem to be unconcerned with the $4.6 trillion in 
liability that Social Security has, which grows every year by $600 
billion; or the $32 trillion in liability that my children are facing 
that gets larger and larger every single year.

With this budget, they have simply accepted that we are going to 
continue to pile up massive amounts of debt to our children, and we are 
going to force them to pay double what we pay in taxes today to sustain 
these programs.


This brings me to my final chart, a chart by the General Accounting 
Office. We know that if we fail to reform entitlements, the Federal 
Government will double in size by the year 2040. When my kids reach my 
age, this budget would leave them with the choice of either paying 
double our current tax rate, or accepting the fact that we just don't 
have enough money to spend on health care, defense, national security 
or education.

I believe this is an enormous missed opportunity by the Democrats. 
Yes, the Democrats balance the budget in 2012, and they should be 
commended for reaching that goal. But at what price are they balancing 
the budget? They hit balance only because they are imposing the largest 
tax increase in American history. We still will have all of the same 
problems though.

They are not reforming anything in government. They are not reforming 
any program. They are just calling for the American taxpayer to send 
more money in Congress so we can continue to spend too much money. And 
because of the path of big government and the tax-and-spend policies 
that the Democrats have chosen, this is going to be a very short-lived 
success. As soon as we get back to this balanced budget on paper in 
2012, the year where their budget gets balanced on the backs of 
taxpayers, it won't be long before entitlement spending drives the 
Federal Government right back into deficits as far as the eye can see.

This is not a Republican and Democrat issue. The fact is every 
independent expert in America that watches fiscal issues knows that 
government is growing out of control. We have really important programs 
that need our attention, Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, the three 
most important programs, in my particular opinion, in the Federal 
Government. Important programs, and programs people depend on, organize 
their lives around. We have to reform these programs in order to save 
these programs, yet they are doing nothing to do that. And because 
their budget does nothing to save these programs, they are hastening 
the day at which they go bankrupt. That is an abdication of 
responsibility.

No matter how you put it, Mr. Chairman, this is a tax increase. No 
matter how you put it, Mr. Chairman, a reserve fund, no matter what 
flowery language you can attach to it, no matter what left-leaning 
think tank you can have to say whatever you want, a tax is a tax.

In our budget, we make sure that these tax increases don't hit 
American families. We make sure the marriage penalty stays away. We 
make sure the child tax credit stays up. We make sure tax rates are 
down. We make sure the death tax goes away. What do they do? They 
insist upon, they require, they depend up all these tax increases. If 
they don't, their budget doesn't balance. They can't have it both ways.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.