---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `f452b2c6a4458625945061842c8ae8cb`
`Mr. REED — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Madam President, we are debating a serious proposal with 
respect to the future of our involvement in Iraq and the future of Iraq 
and, indeed, that region of the world. I believe the proposal Senator 
Harry Reid of Nevada advanced is a sensible way to begin to change our 
policy, so it can be sustained over time and it can lead to a 
successful termination of our operations in Iraq but, more importantly, 
give the Iraqis the opportunity to establish a stable government in a 
very difficult part of the world.

The elements of the proposal that Senator Reid has advanced, are 
right on target. First, to define the mission in a way that they can be 
fully supported by the United States and also that they are congruent 
with our best interests in the region and the world. Next, obviously, 
is force protection. We have to be able to assure our forces that they 
can protect themselves at all times. Third, to continue to develop the 
Iraqi security forces--not just to put guns in their hands but to 
develop their capacity to do other things, such as civil affairs, 
intelligence operations, those critical military skills that will allow 
them to be an effective force in their country, to bring not just 
stability but a sense of competence, coherence to the operation of 
their Government.

The next mission is the constant attention to counterterrorism. This 
is a mission that I believe transcends every border in the world. 
Wherever there are those elements that are actively plotting to attack 
us or our allies, we should be prepared, together with local 
authorities, if they are cooperative, to take these elements out very 
dramatically, preemptively. That is essentially what we did in Somalia, 
without the presence of hundreds of thousands of American troops in 
Somalia. But we had the special operations capacity, intelligence, and 
the cooperation of local parties so we could do that.

Those are the three critical missions I believe we have in Iraq that 
will be longer term. But I think, also, when recognizing those 
missions, we can begin to recognize and begin to redeploy our combat 
brigades that are there. They are essentially now engaged in a civil 
war, a sectarian battle between the Sunnis and Shia in Baghdad, but not 
just there. These forces we have to begin to redeploy away from Iraq. 
Initially, they could be redeployed within the country, to adjacent 
countries, and at some time back to their home stations. I think this 
is the wisest course.

I hope, as the legislation suggests, we could at least have as a goal 
March of 2008 for the redeployment of these combat brigades, 
understanding that these residual missions--force protection, training 
Iraqi security forces, and counterterrorism--will endure. That is a 
wise policy that is consistent with our national security objectives 
and also consistent with our ability and the ability of the American 
people to sustain these efforts over many months.

The continued course of simply adding more troops and hoping for the 
best, which is the President's strategy, is not going to work. More 
importantly, I cannot see it being sustained indefinitely by the 
American people or supported by a terribly overstretched military 
force, particularly our Army and Marine Corps.

This whole approach to Iraq, I believe, from the very beginning, was 
a flawed strategy. It disregarded fundamental aspects of any coherent 
strategy--identify the most serious threat and apply adequate, very 
robust resources to the threat. Iraq wasn't the most serious threat in 
that region. Iran is much more powerful and much more potentially 
dangerous and, also, at that juncture, the most serious threat, and 
still lingering are the international terror cells.

But this administration, against my judgment, entered into this 
conflict in Iraq. Not only did they have a flawed strategy, but the 
execution has been horrific, incompetent. Today, we are left with very 
few good choices. One of the most revealing aspects of why the 
strategic decisions made by the administration were so faulty was given 
a few weeks ago when I asked Admiral


McConnell, the Director of National Intelligence: What is the most 
likely source of an attack on the United States, groups in Iraq or 
groups in Pakistan? His answer, without any delay, immediately, was: 
''Pakistan, of course.'' So we have invested billions and billions of 
dollars, 140,000-plus troops, over 3,000 Americans killed in action, 
many more seriously wounded, and yesterday, the highest intelligence 
official in the country says the most serious potential threat to our 
homeland, an existential attack on the order of 9/11, is from our ally 
Pakistan. That is because, once we focused on Iraq, we took our focus 
off Afghanistan and Pakistan. We have allowed the Taliban to 
rehabilitate itself. The Pakistanis have been unable to deny a safe 
haven to bin Laden, Zawihiri, and other key elements of al-Qaida's 
leadership who are not only surviving but beginning to reorganize and 
reassert themselves as directors or aspirers or at least coconspirators 
with other terror groups around the world. That is a stunning 
indictment of the strategy that this administration has unveiled.

There are other costs to this strategy. You will recall the ''axis of 
evil.'' The President boldly announced that it was Iraq, North Korea, 
and Iran. Well, frankly, after ignoring the North Koreans for many 
years, now the administration is seeking to cut a deal with them with 
respect to their nuclear weapons. But this is a much worse deal than 
the administration had when it stepped into office. In 2000, their 
plutonium was capped by international inspectors on the ground. But 
through a series of miscues, the administration allowed the North 
Koreans to take away their plutonium, create up to 10 nuclear devices, 
we think, test long-range missiles and, in a shocking act, detonate a 
nuclear device, becoming part of the nuclear club. Now we are offering 
them essentially the same terms that could have been had, without all 
this damage, many years ago.

With respect to Iran, we know one of the consequences, one of the 
costs of our operations in Iraq is that Iran is in a much more secure 
strategic position today. They have colleagues and cohorts who are 
integral parts of the Government in Baghdad. The people we rely on, the 
Maliki Government, has huge support from people who have spent years, 
who have fought alongside the Iranians against the Iraqis. Yet we are 
supporting, as we must, the Maliki Government. But we should all 
recognize the huge influence Iran has today as a result of this 
strategy.

Now, these costs are strategic costs, but there are some obvious 
costs in terms of dollars and cents. We are spending in Iraq about $8.4 
billion a month. That level of effort is difficult to sustain. In 
Afghanistan, we are spending less but still significant dollars. All 
these costs are being funded from the supplemental. We are borrowing 
the money from the next generation of Americans to pay for these 
efforts.

The President already set up another supplemental request that will 
be pending in a few days. It includes $93 billion for operations in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. It will bring the total for this fiscal year--
what was in the original budget, together with the supplemental--to 
$145 billion. We will likely see totals such as that in succeeding 
years.

In the 5 years the United States has been engaged in Iraq and 
Afghanistan--Iraq particularly--we have spent about $530 billion. That 
is a huge sum of money. That is very difficult to sustain. We can also 
see the cost in terms of supplying the Army. We have a situation where 
units are without equipment. Our National Guard is in disarray. Now we 
are going to, once again, put a huge demand on our military forces to 
support this escalation. It has been suggested to me that, shortly, 
upward of nine brigades of National Guard and Reserve forces will be 
notified for redeployment to Iraq and Afghanistan. Once again, our 
citizen soldiers will be taken from their homes and sent overseas. When 
they go this time, they will not have quite the same equipment as they 
did the last time because National Guard equipment is in disrepair, 
even worse than the regular forces. Their training will likely not be 
as authentic because of the difficulty in getting out to the national 
training centers. They might do most of the training at their home 
stations. We are beginning to see this accumulation of costs reflected 
in many ways.

A few days ago, the Boston Globe published a story in which it showed 
that because of the retirement and resignations of captains in the 
Army, senior NCOs in the Army, promotion rates have been going up 
astronomically to fill these vacancies. That is probably the worst 
potential trend for any military force, because without those capable 
company grade leaders, we will not be able to assure the American 
public we have the same level of professional skill that we have today.

I believe, for all these reasons, the resolution proposed by Senator 
Harry Reid is the right course of action. But there will be an 
alternative approach, and that is a proposal by Senator Gregg with 
respect to funding. A few points can be made about that. The Gregg 
resolution misinterprets the Constitution by saying the Congress's only 
role is simply to rubberstamp what the President does--or worst case, 
they can only take funds away. That is not the case at all.

As I mentioned on the floor yesterday, way back in 1799, the Supreme 
Court of the United States clearly said that Congress had the right to 
make decisions with respect to national policy involving foreign 
affairs. In fact, their decision essentially said the Congress could 
pass a law that would allow the President to stop ships going into 
certain ports but not leaving certain ports.

Many of my colleagues on the other side came down and talked about us 
micromanaging. That is micromanaging. It is constitutionally 
permissible, perhaps, but it is not something we will do. It is not 
something we would want to do. We want to give the President the latter 
two that he needs but for missions that are consistent with our 
national security.

Under the Gregg resolution's interpretation of the Constitution, 
Congress's only responsibility seems to be to fund whatever the 
President asks.

That I don't think is appropriate constitutionally or with respect to 
our obligations as thoughtful participants in the policy process along 
with the President.

Senator Murray will offer an alternative, and that alternative 
strongly supports our troops but also properly interprets the 
Constitution by stating the President and the Congress have shared 
responsibilities for the decisions involving our Armed Forces.

I suspect if you took the Gregg logic to the extreme, if the 
President sent up a funding bill and we thought it was inadequate, then 
I suspect we couldn't do anything because, after all, all we can do is 
either agree with the President or cut off the funds. That is not the 
case at all.

I can recall the President sending up to the Senate budgets that did 
not have enough resources for armored humvees, body armor, et cetera. 
It was this Congress that put more money in because we have a role when 
it comes to funding the operations of the military.

When it comes to Presidential policy, it is not simply accepting it 
or taking away the money; it is altering that policy if it is wrong, it 
is redefining missions, and it is fully resourcing those missions which 
are the product of this interaction between the President and the 
Congress.

A quote from Senator Murray's resolution:



 . . . the President and Congress should not take any action 


 that will endanger the Armed Forces of the United States, and 


 will provide necessary funds for training, equipment, and 


 other support for troops in the field, as such actions will 


 ensure their safety and effectiveness in preparing for and 


 carrying out their assigned missions.


That I think is a much more accurate, appropriate, and sensible 
approach to the issue of shared responsibility.

In addition, the Murray resolution makes it clear that the 
Constitution gives Congress the responsibility to take actions that 
help our troops and our veterans. We have had a lot of talk about not 
funding the troops. But wait a second, it was the President who sent in 
forces without a plan. It was the President who sent in forces without 
adequate armored humvees. It was the President who sent in forces 
without body armor. It was the President and his Department of Defense 
who weren't aware of the travesties that were taking place at Walter 
Reed when it comes to veterans. It is the President's Veterans 
Administration that refused a


few years ago to ask for adequate money for the Veterans Administration 
hospitals because of the new demand from veterans.

If anyone over the last several years failed to fund the troops 
properly, it is the President. So our concerns should be directed at 
his failures to fund the troops rather than that of Congress.

This is a collaborative process that both the White House and the 
Congress have to ensure our forces have the resources they need, but we 
also have to make sure they are performing the missions most important 
to the United States. By endorsing the Murray resolution, we are 
sending a clear message of our joint responsibility to fully fund our 
soldiers in the field, and by supporting Majority Leader Reid's 
resolution, we are sending a signal that the right policy, phased 
redeployment, carefully defined missions, providing a stable regional 
approach to Iraq and, in the long term, redeploying troops so we can 
face with more flexibility the challenges of a North Korea, of an Iran, 
of places such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, and places perhaps at this 
moment we are not aware of but will suddenly burst onto the front page 
because of the presence of terrorists or other destabilizing 
activities.

I urge strong support of the resolution supported by Majority Leader 
Reid and the resolution supported by Senator Murray.

I yield the floor.