---
---

# None
## `f460b4485e968beed9183ab7c286535e`
`Mrs. BOXER — 16 September 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I rise to address the Senate not only as a 
Senator from the largest State in the Union, a State that is 
experiencing many problems that started with the housing crisis about 
which we talked a long time ago, before the Fed stepped in and did 
something, but I also rise as an economics major. I received my degree 
in economics. My minor was political science. I was a stockbroker a 
long time ago on Wall Street. I know a little bit about Wall Street, 
and I know a little bit about the times we are in right now. I worked 
on Wall Street when John Kennedy was assassinated. It was a horrible 
time. Confidence was shattered. The stock market actually closed down 
for a period. Now we are facing a meltdown. The fact is, we are all 
going to work and hope that it doesn't melt all the way down.

On the day that we learn about Merrill Lynch, which was the gold 
standard of brokerage houses, and AIG, what I understand is the largest 
insurance company in America, when we hear about that and about Lehman 
Brothers, which we also hope can survive in some form via purchase--and 
certainly we know thousands of people have lost everything--to hear a 
U.S. Senator--namely, Senator McCain--say the fundamentals of this 
economy are strong sends cold shivers up and down my spine. To think 
that anyone would say that, one would have to go back to the days of 
Herbert Hoover, President of the United States, the day after the 
market crashed in 1929 and we entered the Great Depression. He said:




 The fundamental business of the country, that is production 


 and distribution of commodities, is on a sound and prosperous 


 basis.


We have Senator McCain memorializing this attitude and these words.

I wish to spend the rest of my time going through the fundamentals of 
this economy. I will come back and speak later when I have a little 
more time to expand.

In 1999, the average American family spent $3,261 on cost-of-living 
expenses; in 2007, $7,585. The average household earned less in 2006 
than they did in 2000. Incomes are going down. Expenses are going up--
groceries, heating, gas, health care. The fundamentals of our economy 
are strong? As Senator Obama said: What economy? Not this economy. The 
average household earned less in 2006 than they did in 2000. Job growth 
during this administration has been the slowest since Herbert Hoover in 
1929, the Great Depression. Our economy has lost jobs for 8 straight 
months; 84,000 jobs were lost last month. The fundamentals of this 
economy are strong? What?

One in five Americans is unemployed for more than 26 weeks, an 
increase of


8.2 percent over 2001. Americans living in poverty increased by 5.7 
million since 2000, and 37 million Americans live in poverty. The 
fundamentals of this economy are strong? Spare me.

Existing home sales fell by 22 percent in 2007. President Bush 
inherited a surplus. We now have an enormous deficit. The debt has 
increased over $4 trillion since 2001. We are spending $10 billion a 
month in Iraq. The money is leaving the country. We are not making the 
investment. The fundamentals of this economy are strong?

Every American, I don't care what party--Republican, Democratic, 
Independent--should be up in arms about a leader looking at these 
figures. I have only given a little of the story. Let's get real. The 
fundamentals of this economy are weak. The people are anxious, and they 
should be. It is time for change.

I yield the floor.