# KENDELL FREDERICK CITIZENSHIP ASSISTANCE ACT
## `f462e036f72a73b2acda24365f354c92`
`Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California — 6 November 2007`

---


Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.

H.R. 2884, the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act, pays 
tribute to the memory of 21-year-old Army Reserve Specialist Kendell K. 
Frederick, who was killed in Iraq while attempting to become an 
American citizen.

Specialist Frederick was born in Trinidad and immigrated to the 
United States when he was 15 to join his mother, stepfather, and two 
sisters. He attended Randallstown Senior High in Baltimore County, 
Maryland, where he joined the school's ROTC program. Specialist 
Frederick enlisted in the Army Reserve in his senior year and was 
deployed to Iraq in December of 2004. As he was serving our country, 
Specialist Frederick sought to apply for U.S. citizenship; yet one 
bureaucratic hurdle after another delayed his application.

First, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service failed to route 
his application to the unit that processed naturalization applications 
for members of the military. That agency then rejected his application 
for failure to pay an application filing fee, despite the fact that 
active military personnel applying for U.S. citizenship do not need to 
pay a filing fee.

Thereafter, this agency directed Specialist Frederick to get his 
fingerprints taken in Maryland, despite the obvious fact that he was 
deployed in Iraq at the time. Also, he had recently had his 
fingerprints taken and undergone a background check when he enlisted in 
the Army Reserve. When his mother called the agency's ''help line,'' 
she was told that there was nothing that could be done.

After trying for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen and having 
his application rejected and delayed as a result of various 
bureaucratic failings, Specialist Frederick was forced to travel on a 
convoy to a base where he could get his fingerprints taken for his 
naturalization application. Tragically, he was killed en route by a 
roadside bomb. Specialist Frederick was posthumously granted U.S. 
citizenship a week after his death.

H.R. 2884 would remove unnecessary procedural hurdles like the one 
Specialist Frederick faced for naturalization applicants who are 
serving or who have recently served in the military. It would require 
the Department of Homeland Security to use the fingerprints provided by 
military naturalization applicants at the time of their enlistment in 
the Armed Forces if the applicants were fingerprinted in accordance 
with DOD requirements, if the naturalization applications are filed 
within 24 months of enlistment, and if the fingerprints are deemed 
sufficient by the Department of Homeland Security for naturalization 
purposes.

The bill would require DHS to inform a member of the armed services 
applying for naturalization when submitting new fingerprints would 
result in a more timely and effective adjudication of the 
naturalization application along with the description of how to submit 
the new fingerprints.

It would also ensure that the DOD complies with the requirements of 
this bill so that fingerprints they hold are sent to DHS. It would 
clarify the time frame in which DHS is required to publicize changes in 
regulations and forms regarding the naturalization of members of the 
Armed Forces. And, finally, it would promote accountability by 
requiring the GAO to report on the naturalization process for Armed 
Forces members.

Approximately 35,000 lawful permanent residents are currently serving 
in our Armed Forces. More than 13,000 noncitizen members of the 
military have applied for U.S. citizenship since 2002.

This is an excellent bill that will help ensure that from now on, 
American soldiers do not face the kinds of unnecessary and unreasonable 
hurdles to American citizenship that cost Specialist Frederick his 
life.

I urge my colleagues to support the bill and would note that this was 
passed unanimously out of the House Judiciary Committee. I urge my 
colleagues, again, to support the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.