---
---

# None
## `f462cf073d6b356a3896a7715f7495c6`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, it is an honor to come before the 
House once again, especially this evening.

As you know, the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor to 
bring forth the truth on behalf of the American people, not just 
Independents or not just Democrats, not just Republicans, but on behalf 
of the American people.

I am so glad to be joined once again by my good friend from Niles, 
Ohio, Mr. Tim Ryan, and I am always excited about being on the floor 
with him. I am excited by the fact that, Mr. Speaker, today that there 
was a conference report signed to support our men and women that are in 
harm's way in Iraq, Afghanistan, and in areas where they are staging to 
move into theater, one that brings about the equipment and support, 
going above and beyond what the President called for, but it also had 
benchmarks to bring about the kind of standards that the American 
people are crying out for.

It happened today at 3 p.m., and I am very proud of not only the 
Speaker but Majority Leader Harry Reid over in the Senate, Senator 
Reid. I think it is also important for us to realize that in both 
chambers it passed by a bipartisan vote. I think it is also important 
to note that as soon as we were able to get that conference report 
signed, that the President, one of his first actions was to announce 
officially his veto of that legislation, saying tomorrow that Democrats 
and Republicans will come together at the White House to discuss where 
we can compromise.

Let me just say this before I yield to Mr. Ryan. I understand that 
there is a discussion that is going on about who is right and who is 
wrong, but I think it is very, very important to understand especially 
on the date that Mr. Ryan is going to address in a minute, some 4 years 
ago, where there was a great announcement of accomplishment and now to 
continue to move on under that light of saying trust me, that 
everything is going to be okay, I think that those days are over. I am 
not saying they are over. The American people are saying they are over.

One time here on the floor, Mr. Ryan went down a litany of things, 
and actually I was checking out some of your work on YouTube recently, 
and it had the one when you came and you said, forgive me for 
questioning what the President says or what the Republican majority at 
that time had to say about the fact of liberators and paying for the 
war and on and on and on.

It continues, but the American people are now saying, Mr. Speaker, 
that we understand this Commander in Chief but we need the Congress to 
stand up and be the Congress, asking for accountability.

So, with that, I know that we have a number of things to talk about 
here this evening, and we also have some fresh quotes from former brass 
because, of course, if you are enlisted or you are inside, you cannot 
speak truth to power or speak your mind. This information has just been 
released not only publicly but to those of us here in Congress. We want 
to share that with the Members.

Also, I want to add that the death toll in Iraq is 3,351; wounded in 
action, returned to duty is up 13,875; and wounded in action and not 
returning to duty is 11,215. That is the latest at 10:00 a.m. today. As 
you know, when we come to the floor, we give that report of that 
information because I think the Members need to understand that this is 
not a political issue. This is a serious issue that is facing the 
country and also facing the men and women in uniform and their 
families.

So I do know that the American people are, and a super majority of 
them are, 100 percent behind accountability and also oversight. I think 
it is important that we have that, and the President is asking for a 
blank check.

The thing that I am disappointed about is that the President had an 
opportunity to share something great with the country about a dialogue, 
but he decided to misrepresent what is in the legislation. I think that 
as we continue to talk about this tonight, that we continue to share 
with the Members, because every time we take a vote, the vote gets 
greater on behalf of accountability. I am hoping that we can meter up 
enough on both sides of the aisle to make sure that we hang in there 
with the men and women in harm's way and those that may be placed in 
harm's way and not wince to the President on some sort of floating 
politics that is going on right now.

I hope they have a true dialogue. I am not about the political part 
of this. I am about the action part of this and making sure that our 
men and women have what they need.

Mr. Speaker, we have done what we said we would do: make sure that 
they are funded; make sure that they have the equipment that they need; 
make sure that the men and women that went over into harm's way, that 
the Department of Defense regulation as it relates to the downtime that 
they are supposed to have with their families,


that they will have it and that if the Department of Defense was going 
to exit from that, then there has to be a reason why they were going to 
exit, for not holding their end of the deal when these men and women 
signed up as volunteers.

So it is very, very important that those of us here in Congress make 
sure that within this democracy that many of these individuals are 
fighting for and making sure and those before them, the veterans, 
making sure we can salute one flag, that we honor them through our 
courage and integrity when it comes down to this very issue.

Mr. Speaker, I yield to Mr. Ryan.

