---
---

# SUPPORTING THE GOALS OF INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY
## `f4762d01e6f8b6c0beec3b11c175fcc7`
`Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California — 6 March 2007`

---


Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. Madam Speaker, I rise today as a 
cosponsor of House Resolution 149, in support of International Women's 
Day. I thank my colleague, Congresswoman Schakowsky of Illinois, for 
introducing this important resolution.

Women in every country around the world face an every-day battle for 
their safety, and for equal rights, civil rights, and human rights.

Even here in this country, every day, women are victims of sexual 
assault, abuse, and domestic violence.

Today, I stand with my colleagues in the House--with women in this 
country, and with women around the world--to make a commitment to work 
together to end discrimination and violence against women.

Yesterday, I returned from a trip where I led a Congressional 
delegation of female members to visit Iraq. While. we were there, we 
met with Iraqi women who told us that they are treated like second 
class citizens.

This is unacceptable. Women in Iraq deserve the same basic human 
rights and civil liberties as men. It is fitting that we should take 
this occasion, on the day before March 8th--International Women's Day--
to restate this basic and essential message.

I urge my colleagues to unanimously support this resolution, a 
message to women everywhere--that this House is committed to fight for 
their civil rights, human rights, and their right to live each day 
without fear of sexual abuse, assault, and domestic violence.