---
---

# None
## `f4774b18ff64832e7bab360ab7e584c5`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Madam Speaker, I am very proud to be bringing this bill to the House 
floor today. This minor change in House rules represents a major step 
forward for the nearly 5 million Americans whose voice is not currently 
represented on the floor of this House. That is right, Madam Speaker, 5 
million Americans go unrepresented on the floor of the people's House.

This is one of the few things we can do for the American body politic 
that is not only the right thing to do, it is easy to do as well.

One of the most simple, yet eloquent and powerful statements in 
support of what we will do today was made by one of our former 
colleagues several years ago. Ben Blaz served in this House for 8 years 
as the delegate from Guam in the mid-1980s and early 1990s.



Delegate Blaz is a man of unquestioned patriotism and uncommon valor. 
He retired from the Marine Corps with the rank of brigadier general, 
and during his time in the corps he was awarded the Legion of Merit, a 
Bronze Star with Combat V and the Vietnam Cross of Gallantry.

I give you a little background on the former Delegate so that our 
colleagues can have some context when I tell you what General Blaz had 
to say at one time on this House floor. What the general said about his 
status in the House and the faith of his fellow Guamanians was this: 
''We are equal in war, but not in peace.''

So it is today, Madam Speaker. Over the past several months, and as 
recently as this week, in the deserts of Iraq and Afghanistan, young 
Americans from Guam, American Samoa, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands 
and Washington, D.C. have fought and died in defense of their country 
and in service to the Nation they love. In the helicopter that crashed 
last week, two from the Virgin Islands were on that helicopter and lost 
their lives.

And yet our colleagues, Mr. Fortuno from Puerto Rico, Dr. Christensen 
from the Virgin Islands, Mr. Faleomavaega from American Samoa, Ms. 
Bordallo from Guam and Ms. Norton, from Washington, D.C., have no right 
to cast a vote and be a voice for their constituents and our fellow 
Americans out on the battlefield.

But, you know, Madam Speaker, I may be overstating the importance of 
this modest rules change. It is, after all, more symbolism than 
substance. Yes, our colleagues who I just mentioned will finally be 
able to cast a vote on the House floor, but, and this should be the 
clincher for my Republican friends who generally prefer to see 
democracy squelched in the people's House, if a vote cast by a Delegate 
or the Resident Commissioner or by them collectively amounts to the 
deciding votes on a question before the


House, then the vote is retaken without permitting them to participate.

So who could possibly be opposed to giving our colleagues, arguably 
some of the most gifted and thoughtful legislators in this Chamber, the 
right to cast a nondecisive vote on the House floor? I mean, that 
really should be done.

Let me close for now by doing something I don't often do here, and 
that is to quote the current President of the United States. Last 
night, Madam Speaker, standing where you are, not 25 feet from where I 
stand today, the distinguished President of the United States, 
President Bush, said, ''This is a decent and honorable country.''

What we are trying to do on the House floor today, colleagues, is the 
decent and honorable thing to do.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.