---
---

# ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
## `f47e3f6244f5a7e9fc8996561b4b6521`
`Mr. WAXMAN — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 5 minutes.

I want to acknowledge the fact that Chairman Tom Davis did more as 
the chairman of our committee in doing oversight than any other Chair 
in the House. We did do a lot, but the other committees did not. They 
didn't want to do oversight. It was as if the Republican leadership of 
the House decided that if they did too much oversight, they might find 
embarrassment to this administration.

Well, it looks like this administration would now like to keep us 
from getting embarrassing information about them because they don't 
like this bill. Oh, we have to give too many reports to Congress; there 
has to be too much transparency; it is burdensome to have to be open 
about these contracts. But the fact of the matter is we are spending an 
incredible amount of money on these outside contracts. And from what we 
have seen, our taxpayers are not being protected from waste, fraud, 
abuse and corruption. Just look at what went on in Iraq. Halliburton 
had contracts for logistical purposes, to restore oil. We were told we 
needed them to get a contract without any competition because they are 
the only ones, this is what we were told in the very beginning when we 
asked why did we get this contract in Iraq with no other competition.



We were told, Well, they are the only ones who know how to put out 
the oil well fires when we go to war. And so they got a contract 
without competition on a cost-plus basis even though they had a history 
of overcharging the taxpayers. And then later we found out that they 
didn't do anything about putting out oil well fires in the first Gulf 
war; it was Bechtel, not Halliburton. We were told it was civil 
servants who had done it in giving this award to the contractor. But 
then we found out it was the political people who did it.

Halliburton was given special treatment. Other contractors were given 
special treatment by not having healthy competition. Competition 
benefits the consumer. When the government is the payor, the consumer, 
we are deprived of what market forces can bring. So these contractors 
got no-bid contracts.

I made a proposal on the House floor when we had one of these 
appropriations bills to say that if any contractor overcharges us $100 
million or more, they ought to be barred from future contracts. The 
chairman at that time of the Armed Services Committee stood up and 
said, We can't have an amendment like this; we haven't even held 
hearings on anybody who has charged us over $100 million.

Well, why hadn't they held hearings? Why didn't the Armed Services 
Committee hold hearings?

The fact of the matter is in recent years, we have had an enormous 
outpouring of money spent in Iraq, in homeland security, in dealing 
with Hurricane Katrina, and we have seen the same mistakes over and 
over again: No-competition contracts; cost-plus contracts.

We have seen what the result has been: Wasted taxpayer dollars. That 
is why this legislation has been put together. It is a bill to require 
that if there is an emergency to give a contract, give it. But then 
have bidding within a year.

Gasoline prices charged by Halliburton were considered highway 
robbery. Parsons built just a handful, 20 of the 142 health clinics 
they were paid to build. Human sewage leaked out of the roof of a 
police academy.

In Hurricane Katrina, they subcontracted and subcontracted and 
subcontracted, and finally they paid a guy with a truck to come and 
take away debris. Every markup of every one of those subcontractors was 
passed on to the taxpayers.

We have had a contract to build a border for our homeland security 
that cost us billions of dollars that didn't work. We had a contract to 
help the Coast Guard get state-of-the-art ships, and they didn't meet 
standards. We need reform in this area.

If that is called micromanaging when we want transparency, this is 
the type of reform we need. We need something we didn't have before: A 
lot more oversight. We have got to keep people honest.

I am shocked when I hear conservatives say they care about taxpayers' 
dollars, and then don't want competition. I am shocked when they say 
taxpayers' money is being used wisely, and then we find it is being 
thrown away.

I urge support for this bill.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.