---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f484dab9f34c5d5c2b925f756feec1f1`
`Mr. SNYDER — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. SNYDER. Madam Chairman, let me begin by thanking Chairman Ike 
Skelton for the work that he has done on this bill.

As we can tell by the tone already, there has been a strong spirit of 
bipartisanship in putting this bill together. Both Ranking Member 
Duncan Hunter and Chairman Ike Skelton have worked very closely 
together to make this the kind of bill we want in time of war.

And, Ike, I just want to say Susie would be proud of the work that 
you have done on this bill.

I also want to thank my colleague, John McHugh, the Congressman from 
New York, for the work that he has done and continues to do year after 
year. And as many of you know, his district includes Fort Drum that has 
done more than its fair share of sacrifice in this war in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, and the war on terrorism.

And, finally, a note about the staff. We all can talk about working 
together in a bipartisan manner, but for us it might mean just shaking 
hands as we go up and down the aisles. For the staff it is day in and 
day out, and I think they have done a great job of working together and 
trying to understand each other's concerns as this bill has come 
together; and I think the product reflects their great, great work.

As somebody who spent 12 months and 20 days in Vietnam a long, long 
time ago at a time then also of a great foreign policy debate in our 
country, what I see in this body and in America today is something that 
a lot of us felt was lacking those 35 or 40 years ago. There is just 
this strong love of our troops and their families by the American 
people and by this Congress. And we recognize the need for a strong, 
well-trained, well-equipped military. And we have never forgotten the 
importance of families, the importance of families to our men and women 
in uniform.

I think of one of my employees, who spent a year in Iraq, and he told 
me when he came home the first time for R&R and he had two young 
children, he came off the plane and he had about a 150-yard walk down 
the aisle there in the airport, and he could not stop himself. He ran 
that last 150 yards so he could see his children that he had not seen 
in several months. And yet we know the sacrifices that our families 
bear.

So because of that, I think we have a lot of good things in this 
bill, whether it is dealing with medical care, TRICARE, the GI bill. I 
think it is a good, strong, bipartisan bill, and I appreciate all the 
work that the staff and Members have done.