# None
## `f491072b538064adaa3e06902e08acc3`
`Mr. GINGREY — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. The lowest of the low.

Of course, I know we want to yield to our friend from Colorado, and 
we will hear from him in just a second, but as I conclude my remarks, I 
just want to say, and Mrs. Thelma Drake, the gentlewoman from Virginia 
mentioned this a little earlier, we had a report today in the House 
Armed Services Committee, a report that was requested by Congress in 
our last emergency supplemental, from the Government Accountability 
Office, the GAO, on these benchmarks, and the Comptroller General 
talked about the progress. Really, he talked mainly about lack of 
progress, and it was ironic that even though several of those 
benchmarks, we had made some progress, he pretty much gave the Iraqi 
government a failing report card.

I think that is disappointing here, just a matter of a few days prior 
to General Petraeus' report.

He even suggested that while General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker 
are highly professional and we would get a professional report from 
them, we would not get an unbiased report. The only unbiased report was 
coming from him and from the Government Accountability Office.

I suggested to him, during that hearing, you know, you might be 
unbiased, but your ability to interpret what you see on the ground 
certainly militarily may not come even close to General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker. So let's wait for the report, let's give victory a 
chance. That's what I want to say to all my colleagues. Let's button 
our lips for the rest of this week, and let's see what the report says.

I would suggest that the President is going to listen to General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker, and I would suggest that yes, indeed, 
the Iraqi government is making progress, that they are not making as 
fast of progress as we would hope, but we would continue to put 
pressure on them, but let's give victory a chance.