---
---

# None
## `f4bf3d048d86a33f32ad81cbe5d05374`
`Mr. CALVERT — 14 June 2007`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a hero from my 
congressional district, U.S. Army SSG Thomas Michael McFall. Today on 
Flag Day as we honor the history of ''Old Glory,'' I ask that the House 
of Representatives also honor and remember this incredible young man 
who died in service to his country.

Thomas grew up in Riverside, where his father still resides. He was a 
member of the 1st Battalion, 38th Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade, 2nd 
Infantry Division, home-based in Fort Lewis, Washington. Staff Sergeant 
McFall was a career soldier who understood the dangers of his job. He 
joined the Army in 1994 and has been stationed all over the world, 
including South Korea, Panama, Japan and Afghanistan before deploying 
to Iraq in April. On May 28, 2007, Sergeant McFall was killed by an 
improvised explosive device in Baghdad, Iraq.

In reading about Thomas' life, I was impressed by his charismatic and 
caring nature. The Press Enterprise describes a man that would take in 
other soldiers who had nowhere to go during Christmas time. Sergeant 
McFall was also a proud and loving husband and parent. He leaves behind 
his wife Emily and three children Austin, Elizabeth and Matthew. He 
also leaves behind his father Thomas, stepmother Sherry, mother April 
and stepfather Charles as well as several brothers and sisters. Staff 
Sergeant McFall was laid to rest Friday, June 8, 2007 at Riverside 
National Cemetery.

As we look at the incredibly rich military history of our country we 
realize that this history is comprised of men, just like Thomas, who 
bravely fought for the ideals of freedom and democracy. Each story is 
unique and humbling for those of us who, far from the dangers they have 
faced, live our lives in relative comfort and ease. The day the McFall 
family had to say farewell to Thomas was probably the hardest day the 
family has ever faced and my thoughts, prayers and deepest gratitude 
for their sacrifice goes out to them. There are no words that can 
relieve their pain and what words I offer only begin to convey my deep 
respect and highest appreciation.

Staff Sergeant McFall's wife, children and family have all given a 
part of themselves in the loss of their loved one and I hope they know 
that their husband, father and son, the goodness he brought to this 
world and the sacrifice he has made, will be remembered.
