# None
## `f4da5a64273fd246751d28d33e6857ef`
`Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida â€” 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida. I'd like to thank the gentleman 
from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern) for the time, and I yield myself such 
time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, on Sunday the Iraqi people went to the polls to vote in 
their latest national parliamentary elections. Millions of Iraqis voted 
at thousands of voting stations throughout the country. The democratic 
process is succeeding in Iraq. The people there, despite 
extraordinarily difficult challenges, are able to express themselves in 
free elections.

Sunday was a good day for the future of Iraq. Those elections would 
not have taken place but for the decision of President Bush in 2007 to 
send over 20,000 surge troops to Iraq in order to establish, ''a 
unified democratic federal Iraq that can govern itself, defend itself, 
and sustain itself.'' Those elections would not have been possible but 
for the sacrifices of our troops and their families. Just 4 months ago, 
Mr. Speaker, President Obama announced a surge strategy for 
Afghanistan. He committed 30,000 additional forces to a 
counterinsurgency strategy that I believe will help to strengthen the 
government in Afghanistan's security forces, as the surge did in Iraq.

Since President Obama's announcement, we've seen considerable 
results. For example, last month, our troops began what is known as the 
Marjah offensive. The joint offensive with the Afghan National Army and 
coalition partners has pushed the Taliban out of Marjah and has allowed 
the Afghan government to take control of significant areas that were 
previously controlled by the Taliban. This offensive is what General 
David Petraeus, the commander of the United States Central Command, has 
described as the ''initial salvo'' in a 12- to 18-month campaign to 
defeat the Taliban.

Now I have had and I continue to have, Mr. Speaker, disagreements 
with policies of President Obama, but I have said privately, I have 
said publicly, and I reiterate here today, that in the case of 
Afghanistan, President Obama has demonstrated great responsibility and 
a sense of the national security interest of the United States. He 
deserves our support.

Just as our military is making tangible progress, like the Marjah 
offensive demonstrates, just as this is occurring, many of our 
colleagues in the majority party now feel that it is time to withdraw 
from Afghanistan. The resolution that we are set to debate today would 
require the President to withdraw our troops in 30 days. I believe that 
that would be precipitous. I believe that precipitously withdrawing our 
troops would be reckless. I believe it would allow the Taliban to 
regain control of Afghanistan and thereby provide criminal groups such 
as al Qaeda with carte blanche to run terrorist training camps and plan 
terrorist attacks against the United States and our allies. I would 
remind my colleagues that it was the safe harbor and support that the 
Taliban gave bin Laden which allowed him to plan the September 11, 
2001, attacks from Afghanistan against this country. A reconstituted 
Taliban will undoubtedly do the same and will pose a significant and 
grave risk to the national security of the United States.

I believe, Mr. Speaker, that we must never allow Afghanistan to once 
again fall into the hands of terrorists whose sole purpose is to 
destroy the United States and to kill innocent civilians. Precipitous 
withdrawal would not only be dangerous, I believe, to our national 
security, but would constitute a mortal blow to the Afghan people, who 
are relying on our support.

Although they have far to go, Afghanistan has made demonstrable 
progress. But if this resolution were to become U.S. policy, all the 
improvements made by the Afghan people would disappear. Afghans would 
no longer be given the chance to vote in elections. The Taliban would 
rule by the edict of terror. It would mean the return of a nightmarish 
tyranny to Afghanistan. Women would see the rights they have gained 
disappear as the Taliban once again made women noncitizens and banned 
young girls, who for the first time are learning to read, from schools.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that now is not the time to turn our backs on 
the Afghan people. It is not the time to counter the mission of our 
troops, especially when they are engaged in the first major offensive 
of President Obama's reaffirmed counterinsurgency strategy. Let us send 
a message to the terrorists that the United States is committed to our 
mission to prevent the return to power of the Taliban. Let us soundly 
defeat this resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.

