---
---

# INSPECTOR GENERAL REFORM ACT OF 2008
## `f4db71e9c33a5446199517c227d0ebbc`
`Mr. WAXMAN — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the Senate amendments 
to H.R. 928, the Improving Government Accountability Act. This bill, 
introduced by Representative Cooper, was favorably reported by the 
Oversight Committee on August 2, 2007, with strong support from members 
across the political spectrum.

There is a simple reason why this bill has so much support: it 
strengthens the Inspectors General, who are the first line of defense 
against waste, fraud, and abuse in federal programs.

The last six years have given us examples of Inspectors General at 
their best and at their worst.

Stuart Bowen, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, 
has uncovered fraud and saved American taxpayers hundreds of millions 
of dollars. Clark Kent Erving and Richard Skinner, the former and 
current IGs for the Department of Homeland Security, have identified 
billions in wasteful spending in the new Department. Glenn Fine at the 
Department of Justice; Earl Delvaney at Interior; and Brian Miller at 
the General Services Administration have all reported courageously on 
abuses within the agencies they oversee.

These and other IGs have fought waste, fraud, and abuse and saved the 
taxpayers billions of dollars.

Yet there are also IGs who seem more intent on protecting their 
departments from political embarrassment than on doing their job. The 
Oversight Committee is investigating allegations that the State 
Department IG has blocked investigations into contract fraud in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. The Energy and Commerce Committee documented serious 
abuses by the former IG in the Commerce Department. And the Science 
Committee has identified serious questions raised about the close 
relationship of the NASA IG to agency management.

This bill strengthens the good IGs by giving them greater 
independence. Under this legislation, they will have new budgetary 
independence, and the President or agency head will have to inform 
Congress 30 days before any IG is removed.

At the same time, the legislation enacts in statute new mechanisms 
for holding bad IGs to account. The legislation establishes an 
''Integrity Committee'' that will investigate allegations that IGs have 
abused the public trust.

There have been several key champions of the legislation. 
Representative Cooper has worked tirelessly on this issue for years and 
deserves our thanks for his efforts. I would also like to acknowledge 
Subcommittee Chairman Towns for his tremendous leadership in moving 
this legislation forward and Ranking Member Tom Davis for his 
commitment to strong IGs and his many helpful contributions.

H.R. 928 would make needed improvements to the IG Act and I urge 
members to support it.