# BARRING ACCESS OF LONG-HAUL MEXICAN TRUCKS
## `f4e263db368d1a9e9bbb860638e2557a`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Last Saturday, September 6, marked a dark day in the transportation 
history and the safety of the traveling public in the United States of 
America. It was the 1-year anniversary of the so-called cross-border 
demonstration project of the Department of Transportation under the 
Bush administration.

When this pilot program began, 1 year and 5 days ago, they assured us 
it would be a 1-year pilot. They further assured us that they would 
fully evaluate the program before opening our border to all Mexican 
trucks. Unfortunately, Secretary Peters, under the tutelage of the Bush 
administration, announced last month that they intend to continue the 
program for two more years.

You know, given the fact that they have ignored Congress' will on 
this issue repeatedly, I wasn't surprised. But I am outraged. I am 
outraged that the Bush administration, for political purposes, would 
jeopardize the safety of the traveling public in the United States of 
America.

Since the beginning of this idea in the Bush administration, there 
has been strong and bipartisan congressional objection to the program. 
There are a number of concerns regarding Mexico's less stringent or 
nonexistent regulations on hours of service, vehicle safety, driver 
training and licensing, their nonexistent commercial driver's license 
database, or the meaningless database that they contend is a 
registration of commercial driver's licenses, and the fact that there 
is not


one single certified drug testing laboratory in Mexico.

And I am further concerned that our government, under the leadership 
of the Bush administration, has said that, don't worry; they'll take 
care of all of these problems at the border. The Federal Motor Carrier 
Safety Administration will inspect every truck every time, or so they 
purport.

There are questions about whether or not they're delivering on that 
pledge. There are also certainly questions of diverting our already 
inadequate force of Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration 
officials, officers to the border to just inspect the trucks of a few 
Mexican companies that want to drive long distance in the United 
States.

The House has already voiced opposition on the implementation of this 
pilot program in three separate pieces of legislation: H.R. 1773, the 
Safe American Roads Act of 2007, which the House passed in May 2007 by 
an overwhelming vote of 411-3, and we'll hear a little bit later from 
the author of that legislation.

Provisions were also included in the 2007 Iraq war supplemental 
spending bill to impose strict measures to ensure the pilot program 
adheres to safety and security guidelines.

And then finally, last December, Congress included a provision in the 
2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act to prohibit DOT from using funds 
to, unfortunately, using the Senate's language instead of ours, 
establish a cross-border motor carrier program. The Bush administration 
argues that it was already established and they are just continuing it. 
The legislation that the House had passed would not have allowed them 
to parse those words and to continue to violate what is the very clear 
intent to Congress, despite the bungling of the wording by the Senate.

Because of DOT's blatant disregard of congressional intent, I 
introduced this bill, H.R. 6630, in July, to ensure the Mexican truck 
pilot is terminated, and that the results are fully evaluated before 
the program is either expanded or continued, and to reassert the 
authority of Congress in this matter. So this is something that should 
be virtually noncontroversial in this House, this House having spoken 
previously on this issue, this House being, on a bipartisan basis, 
fully concerned with the safety of the traveling American public, 
unlike the administration.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.