# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f4e519a93b06dca08c6d661ea91bee92`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I wish to proceed for a few moments 
with my leader time and say to my good friend the majority leader, I 
know it is customary for him to speak last, but I was unavoidably 
detained from getting to the floor and wanted to make a couple of 
observations about the Kennedy amendment on my leader time.

A vote for Senator Kennedy's hate crime amendment regretfully puts 
this whole bill in jeopardy. The only way to ensure we have a Defense 
authorization bill this year is to vote against the Kennedy amendment. 
There are too many important Defense provisions in the bill that are at 
risk because of a controversial, nongermane amendment dealing with 
social policy.

Among the items at risk, the Wounded Warriors provision, the pay 
raise, acquisition reform, and many other important Defense provisions, 
all are put at risk by the adoption of the Kennedy amendment.

We have now gone through a long exercise debating Iraq amendments and 
nongermane amendments related to the social agenda of the other side. 
But what are we trying to accomplish here? Do we want to protect the 
defense policy matters in this bill that actually matter to our forces 
in the field, or do we want to debate political and social issues on 
this measure? The Senate has been on record all year that we will not 
cut off funding for our troops in the field and that we need to do more 
to help our wounded warriors returning from the war. Let us not 
sacrifice the bipartisan work of the committee for an amendment that is 
not relevant to the underlying bill.

I hope the Kennedy amendment will be defeated.