# GREEN THE CAPITOL INITIATIVE
## `f4f7e75498e732d76bb04f55d44cb487`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Thank you, Congressman Inslee. I appreciate your 
being here, I appreciate your explanations, and I appreciate your 
continued work on our various committees that we serve on.

One final point that I would say in conclusion that we haven't talked 
about is that this is not just an issue of greening the Capitol in 
terms of providing examples. This is also fundamentally that the same 
principles that we are talking about here make a huge difference for 
American security. The first hearing that we had on our Global Warming 
and Energy Independence Committee was a panel of retired military and 
intelligence experts.

The United States Department of Defense is the largest consumer of 
energy in the world. An aircraft carrier gets 17 feet to the gallon. 
The war in Iraq is the most energy-intensive military operation in 
the history of the world. It is four times more energy-intensive than 
the first Iraq war. We are delivering gasoline to the front at a price 
of over $100 a gallon, and it's being delivered in tanker trucks that 
might as well have great big bull's eyes on them.


Our military understands that part of the reason they are engaged in 
Iraq now is because it is the second largest source of proven oil 
reserves. They understand that their budgets are being tortured out of 
all proportion because of the rapidly escalating energy costs. They 
understand that our dependence on petroleum in areas that are 
extraordinarily volatile in the Middle East, in other parts of the 
world and Africa, Venezuela, and being linked to a decline in petroleum 
whenever that peak hits, if it hasn't already, and handcuffs them, puts 
them at risk, costs them money.

So while we are talking about greening the Capitol, empowering people 
in the neighborhoods to live more environmentally-sensitive lives and 
to be able to have policies that will reduce the threat of global 
warming and greenhouse gases, there is a very real and very tangible 
element here that is the very security of the United States and the 
protection of our soldiers.

The things that you have been talking about here, Mr. Inslee, and 
others, that we have talked about on Capitol Hill, if we are able to 
implement them for the Department of Defense, it's going to make a huge 
difference for the taxpayer and the safety and the military 
effectiveness of our soldiers.