# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `f4f955c1b2ba30ddbdf57ce08138ee8b`
`Mr. TIAHRT — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Mr. Speaker, I offer my support for the passage of both 
amendments which constitute H.R. 2642, the Iraq/Afghanistan 
Supplemental Appropriations. Our service personnel serving abroad and 
here at home deserve the full support of this Congress. After months of 
partisan posturing by the Democrat Leadership, this bill finally puts 
the needs of our troops above the needs of politicians.

This bipartisan agreement provides $161.8 billion for the Department 
of Defense (DoD) to carry out the will of this nation. This funding 
pays the salaries and benefits of military and DoD civilian personnel, 
the fuel for their vehicles, and ammunition for their guns. This 
funding also takes care of their loved ones left behind.

In addition to providing for our service personnel in combat, this 
important legislation expands the GI education benefits for our 
veterans and extends unemployment insurance, Although unrelated to the 
primary purpose of this legislation, I agree that these are vital 
priorities to the American people.

In December 1943 when Kansan Harry Colmery wrote the guiding 
principles that would become the GI Bill of Rights, the promise was 
clear. Veterans returning from war would be provided with free 
education and a host of other benefits as a token of America's thanks 
for their service. Today, returning veterans receive many of these same 
benefits, but the value of the educational benefits has fallen due to 
the rapid rise in the cost of higher education.

The important educational expansion to the GI Bill found in H.R. 2642 
renews the promise first proposed by Harry Colmery. Service members in 
Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world fighting the Global War on 
Terror deserve our support while in uniform and when their duty is 
complete. As a Kansan, I am proud of the work Mr. Colmery started in 
1943 and the work Congress continues today with the passage of this 
legislation.

This bill provides increased educational benefits for all members of 
the military who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001. 
The new benefit includes tuition reimbursement equal to the established 
cost regularly charged for in-state tuition at a public institution of 
higher education, a housing allowance, and a stipend for supplies and 
equipment for four academic years. The amount of the benefit is 
determined by the length of time, after September 11, 2001, the service 
member was on active duty. This provision also allows educational 
benefits to be transferred to the spouse or child of a service member.

As a co-sponsor of H.R. 5740, which provided the base concepts of 
this GI Bill expansion provision, I am very pleased that these benefits 
were included in H.R. 2642. Thankfully these much deserved benefits are 
not linked to a tax increase on small businesses, which was the case on 
an earlier version of the Iraq/Afghanistan Supplemental Appropriations.

In addition to providing funding for our troops fighting the Global 
War on Terror and


valuable educational benefits to our military veterans, this 
legislation includes an extension of unemployment insurance for 13 
weeks in every state through March 31, 2009. Contrary to previous 
versions that had been considered by this House, this provision 
incorporates a 20-week work requirement in order to qualify for 
benefits. This work requirement is essential to ensure that people do 
not gain unemployment benefits for a longer period of time than they 
worked.

Mr. Speaker, this is a proud day. I am privileged to support this 
important legislation to honor our commitments to those in uniform and 
our veterans. They deserve nothing less. I hope all my colleagues will 
support both amendments to the H.R. 2642.
