---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `f50d52e7eb642feb8d14e652def9e873`
`Mr. LUGAR — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, this legislation authorizes the creation of 
a civilian readiness corps to address post-conflict situations and 
other emergencies overseas. The Senate already embraced the creation of 
such a corps when it unanimously passed S. 3322 last June. 
Unfortunately, that bill, introduced by Senator Biden and me and co-
sponsored by Senators Hagel, Alexander and Warner languished in the 
House of Representatives. We have hopes that the 110th Congress will 
now bring this idea to fruition.

In his State of the Union address last month, the President endorsed 
the need for such a corps:

''A second task we can take on together is to design and establish a 
volunteer Civilian Reserve Corps. Such a corps would function much like 
our military reserve. It would ease the burden on the Armed Forces by 
allowing us to hire civilians with critical skills to serve on missions 
abroad when American needs them. It would give people across America 
who do not wear the uniform a chance to serve in the defining struggle 
of our time.'' President Bush, January 23, 2007, State of the Union 
speech, Washington, DC.

The legislation I am introducing today is an updated version of S. 
3322. It is the result of a conversation begun in 2003 between Members 
of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the leadership of the 
State Department. The concept has gone through a number of evolutions 
and has passed the Committee unanimously both as a free-standing bill 
and as part of the State Department authorization bill. I am asking the 
Senate to pass it now again as a free-standing bill and send it to the 
House with our unanimous approval.

International crises are inevitable, and in most cases, U.S. national 
security interests will be threatened by sustained instability. The war 
on terrorism necessitates that we not leave nations crumbling and 
ungoverned. We have already seen how terrorists can exploit nations 
afflicted by lawlessness and desperate circumstances. They seek out 
such places to establish training camps, recruit new members, and tap 
into a global black market in weapons.

In this international atmosphere, the United States must have the 
right structures, personnel, and resources in place when an emergency 
occurs. A delay in our response of a few weeks, or even days, can mean 
the difference between success and failure. Clearly we need a full 
range of tools to prevail. Our Committee's focus has been on boosting 
the civilian side of our stabilization and reconstruction capabilities, 
while encouraging improved mechanisms for civilian and military 
agencies to work together on these missions.

Those who were once unconvinced of the need for such a corps have 
only to look at our experience in Iraq and Afghanistan to understand 
its value.

This legislation continues to build on the original legislation, S. 
2127, that Senators Biden and Hagel and I introduced in early 2004 to 
encourage and support a well-organized, sufficiently resourced and 
strongly led civilian counterpart to the military in post-conflict 
zones. It is our view that the civilian side needs both operational 
capability and a significant surge capacity. This legislation gives 
statutory status to the State Department's Office of the Coordinator of 
Reconstruction and Stabilization and makes the position of Coordinator 
subject to the advice and consent of the Senate. The legislation 
authorizes the establishment of a federal response capability with both 
active and standby components, as well as a civilian reserve that draws 
upon the talent and willingness to serve that resides among our people. 
It provides flexibility in personnel management, pay, and benefits to 
build the corps and create surge capacity in an emergency. Finally, it 
authorizes expenditures for a crisis response fund, for the civilian 
response corps, and for a substantial training, planning and 
operational capacity for the office.

The State Department has made progress through the Office of the 
Coordinator of Reconstruction and Stabilization that was established in 
July of 2004. The Office has already done a great deal of the 
preliminary work needed to build an effective corps. But now it is time 
for the Office to recruit, train, and organize the corps so that we 
have deployable units.

We need to have a 250-person active duty component made up of State 
Department and USAID employees. We need a 2,000 person standby 
component drawn from both State and USAID, but also from other Federal 
agencies that have employees who are willing to volunteer and have the 
necessary skill sets. And we need to begin building a civilian reserve, 
recruiting at least 500 highly skilled persons and eventually many 
more.

The 250-person active duty personnel should include people with 
skills that are more technical than the broader diplomatic 
requirements--civil engineering, police expertise, agricultural 
knowledge, health, education, and political organization. They should 
have experience in difficult situations overseas and be trained and 
available for rapid deployment with the military for both initial 
assessments and programming purposes. They would be the first civilian 
team on the ground in post-conflict situations, probably well in 
advance of the establishment of an embassy.

Such a 250-person corps would be no larger than a typical army 
company. But it would be a force multiplier. It would be equipped with 
the authority and training to take broad operational responsibility for 
stabilization missions. Establishment of such a corps is a modest 
investment when seen as part of the overall national security budget. 
Even in peace time, we maintain active duty military forces of almost 
1.4 million men and women who train and plan for the possibility of 
war. Given how critical post conflict situations have been to American 
national security in the last decade, I believe it is reasonable to 
have a mere 250 civilians who are training for these situations and are 
capable of being deployed anywhere in the world, at any time they may 
be needed.



Congress must now be willing to provide the funding to make this 
corps a reality. This legislation authorizes a $75 million crisis 
response fund to be made available as a contingency for stabilization 
and reconstruction crises. Of this amount, the administration is 
authorized to spend $25 million for the organization, training, and 
emergency deployment of the response corps. This legislation authorizes 
the crisis response fund and $80 million for the operations of the new 
State Department office and the active duty component, including 
training, equipment, and travel.

We have a long way to go in creating the kind of robust civilian 
capacity that we need. Both the State Department and the Defense 
Department are keenly aware of the importance of this legislation. If 
we cannot plan better as a government, the United States may come to 
depend even more on our military for tasks and functions far beyond its 
current role. But I remain optimistic that we can build on the progress 
already made to create a strong and reliable civilian component that 
boosts our stabilization and reconstruction capabilities. Passing this 
legislation once again will demonstrate that there is a keen 
understanding in the Senate that we need to move forward. It will 
support executive branch actions already taken and encourage further 
progress. We hope that our friends in the House of Representatives, 
several of whom are considering introducing their own legislation, will 
move forward with the Senate in this endeavor. I urge adoption of this 
legislation.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.