# None
## `f5158f7b6868f22b98c69b8bb45a4d02`
`Mr. BOND — 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss an amendment that I 
am cosponsoring with my friend and fellow cochair of the Senate 
National Guard Caucus, Senator Leahy. We will be introducing a 
bipartisan amendment to strengthen one of our Nation's most important 
military and civilian resources, the National Guard.

The National Guard, as I think everybody in this body knows, has a 
long and proud history of contributing to America's military operations 
abroad while providing vital support and security to civil authorities 
at home.

Since September 11, 2001, our citizen soldiers and airmen have taken 
on


greater responsibilities and risk, from fighting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan to providing critical disaster assistance in the United 
States.

Now we see the tremendous value of the National Guard forces every 
time we look as they confront terrorists, provide critical support in 
unique areas such as Afghanistan where the agribusiness development 
teams are working to help provide agricultural know-how and better 
income to the farmers of Afghanistan, to areas where they provide 
water, food, and health supplies to victims of natural disasters.

Furthermore, the Guard is a tremendous value for the capability it 
provides our Nation. It provides 40 percent of the total military force 
for around 4.5 percent of the budget. In other words, the Guard 
provides tremendous bang for the buck.

There is no doubt today we are asking more from the men and women of 
the National Guard than ever before, often at great cost to their 
families and their own lives.

I think this means we have a heavy responsibility to support our 
citizen soldiers and airmen in their unique dual mission of developing 
military support abroad and providing homeland defense stateside.

While serving abroad, National Guard troops serve under Air Force and 
Army Commands in what is known as title 10 status, which refers to the 
section in the U.S. Code dealing with the military. But when the Guard 
operates at home, they serve under the command and control of the 
Nation's Governors in title 32 status.

I had the honor of serving as commander in chief of the Missouri 
National Guard for 8 years. I can tell you that Missouri has a wide 
range of natural and sometimes human disasters ranging from tornadoes 
and floods to blizzards and ice storms. I called out the Guard for 
every single one of those and several more I probably cannot even 
remember: threatened prison insurrections, other civil disobedience, to 
tracking down escapees from prison. Right after Katrina--I think it was 
about a year after Katrina--I visited Jefferson Barracks, MO, where one 
of our National Guard engineer units is stationed.

They told me proudly that when Katrina hit, they immediately sent one 
of their National Guard battalions to Katrina. They had all the 
equipment, the high-wheeled vehicles, the communications equipment. 
They did such a wonderful job, the adjutant general of Louisiana called 
and said: You have two more battalions; send us another one. They said: 
That is where the problem comes in. We only have equipment for one out 
of three battalions. The Guard was one-third resourced. We could have 
sent them down there in tennis shoes and a taxicab, but they needed the 
equipment that an engineer battalion has to deal with the problems of 
the aftermath of the floods and the hurricane. I think there is a lot 
more we can do to make this unique arrangement work more smoothly. The 
Guard will continue to play a critical role in response to another 
natural disaster or, heaven forbid, terrorist attack. To the men and 
women of the National Guard, we say: Thank you for that support.

But more needs to be done. The amendment we are introducing today to 
strengthen the Guard consists of two planks which are designed, first, 
to increase the Guard's voice inside the Pentagon and, second, to 
clarify how the Federal military support to civil authorities will 
occur here at home.

We would give the Chief of the National Guard more muscle in the 
Pentagon, providing a seat for him on the Joint Chiefs of Staff. With 
40 percent of the force, one would think that big a portion of our 
total military capability would deserve to sit with the outstanding 
leaders of the Army, the Air Force, the Marines, and others who are 
there. One would think this large a segment of our force would be 
represented. When we have big decisions on the future of our resource 
allocation for the military--title X and, in this case, also title 
XXXII--they ought to be at the table.

Last year--I thank my colleagues--we successfully authorized the 
promotion of the Chief of the National Guard to the rank of four-star 
general in last year's empowerment legislation. Additionally, this 
year's empowerment amendment will make certain that the Chief of the 
National Guard Bureau has a Vice Chief in the grade of lieutenant 
general. When you are dealing with that many problems, there is a major 
operation that needs to be handled by a deputy to the four-star Chief 
of the National Guard. It is critical to the day-to-day operations of 
the National Guard Bureau and to ensure the Guard is adequately 
represented inside the Pentagon.

This amendment will also fill the gaps between civilian and military 
emergency response capabilities. We would give the National Guard 
Bureau, in consultation with the States' adjutant generals, budgetary 
power to identify, validate, and procure equipment essential to their 
unique domestic missions so they will be better prepared to respond to 
emergencies here at home. The next time they call for a second engineer 
battalion, I hope we have the equipment to send one to whatever State 
or maybe our own State where they are needed.

The amendment also supports the designation of National Guard general 
officers as commanders of Army North and Air Force North commands. This 
will ensure unity of effort and of command between the National Guard 
in the 54 States and territories and the very important U.S. North 
command which protects the United States in the continental United 
States.

Finally, our amendment gives State Governors tactical control of 
Federal troops responding to emergencies inside their State or 
territory. Time and time again, we have seen Reserve units stationed 
within close proximity to a natural or manmade disaster forced to stand 
by and watch when they could have been assisting injured victims in 
preventing loss of property. This amendment ensures that all available 
military forces be utilized as early as possible in an emergency 
situation. This way, our State leaders can act more quickly and 
decisively to mitigate disasters at home. Our citizen soldiers stand 
ready to defend the Nation, secure our homeland from natural disasters 
and terrorist attacks, and are now fighting overseas in the war on 
terror. Neither the homeland response nor the Federal military support 
missions of the Guard are likely to diminish in importance at any time 
in the foreseeable future. In fact, the need for the National Guard is 
greater now than ever before. Now more than ever, as budgets are 
constrained and entitlements continue to grow at alarming rates, we 
should not be looking to reduce the Guard but, rather, fully to man and 
equip it.

We have a responsibility to give the Guard the equipment, resources, 
and bureaucratic muscle they need to meet their critical dual mission. 
In order to do so, it is imperative we strengthen the decisionmaking 
capability of Guard leaders within the Department of Defense and make 
sure they are at the table.

As one former leader of the Guard said: If you want us in on the big 
plays, at least let us in the huddle when you are planning to call 
those plays. That is what this amendment does.

I thank my colleagues for their past support of the Guard. I join 
with Senator Leahy in asking for continued support of the National 
Guard by voting for this amendment.

I yield the floor.















 Amendment No. 1597
