---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f525a21e4195ce38753cdbd12dbd901b`
`Mr. DORGAN — 13 July 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. In about 4 minutes, let me describe an amendment that is 
very simple. Yesterday, we received a report--it is described in 
today's paper--


on progress dealing with benchmarks in Iraq. There is only one reason 
we are given this report by the administration. It is because we 
required this report in law. The Congress said: We require you to give 
us this report.

There is another report we are not getting. We have not yet required 
it. Our amendment will require it. That is, What has been done and what 
is being done to bring to justice Osama bin Laden and the leadership of 
al-Qaida and those who committed the attacks against this country on 9/
11/2001? What is being done to bring them to justice? It has been 
nearly 6 long years and Osama bin Laden remains free. More importantly, 
the threat against our country today is a threat by Osama bin Laden, 
the leadership of al-Qaida, operating from a secure and safe place in 
Pakistan, we are told, planning attacks against our country and others.

Here is the situation: August 2001, the Presidential daily briefing 
said this--the title was ''Bin Laden determined to strike in the US.'' 
That was August 2001. It is what was handed to the President back then.

Here is today. Our intelligence assessments, we are told by newspaper 
accounts: ''Al Qaeda is better positioned to strike the West.'' Think 
of that. Nearly 6 years later and al-Qaida is better positioned to 
strike the West.

Now, let me tell you what Mr. Negroponte told us in January of this 
year. He said: ''Al Qaeda continues to plot attacks against our 
Homeland'' from a ''secure hideaway in Pakistan.'' That is from Mr. 
Negroponte, the top intelligence official in our country.

He further said this in January of this year:




 Al Qaeda is the terrorist organization that poses the 


 greatest threat to U.S. interests, including to [our] 


 Homeland.


Now, having known that, let me describe a couple of things we have 
been reading recently. This is February of this year:




 Senior leaders of al-Qaida operating from Pakistan over the 


 last year have set up a band of training camps in the tribal 


 regions near the Afghan border, according to American 


 intelligence and counterterrorism officials.



 American officials said there was mounting evidence that 


 Osama bin Laden and his deputy, al-Zawahiri, have been 


 steadily building an operations hub in the mountainous 


 Pakistani tribal area of north Waziristan.


Finally, this week:




 While the U.S. presses its war against insurgents linked to 


 al Qaida in Iraq, Osama bin Laden's group is recruiting, 


 regrouping and rebuilding in a new sanctuary along the border 


 between Afghanistan and Pakistan, senior U.S. military, 


 intelligence and law enforcement officials said.


Now, the question is this: While we have soldiers going door to door 
in Baghdad in the middle of a civil war, with sectarian violence----