---
---

# TRIBUTE TO STAFF SERGEANT JASON BROWN
## `f52cd0db8ddcd481847220918720cd8d`
`Mr. BRADY of Texas — 5 June 2008`

---


Mr. BRADY of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and 
service of a Magnolia, Texas, native, SSG Jason Brown, who was killed 
in Iraq on April 17, 2008.

America was formed in the crucible of the Revolutionary War and 
hardened during the tragedy of the Civil War. We demonstrated our 
willingness to carry the standard of freedom during World War II. 
During these, and numerous other times in America's history, our 
Nation's finest young men have answered the call and stepped forward to 
serve their Nation and protect the cause of liberty. Staff Sergeant 
Brown honored the sacrifice of those who answered the call before him 
by stepping forward in another time of national crisis; after the 
cowardly attacks of September 11th and at the dawn of the war in Iraq.

Just days after the beginning of the Iraq war in 2003, Sergeant Brown 
joined the Army and the next year earned one of the Army's most revered 
symbols: the Green Beret worn by members of the elite Special Forces. 
After enlisting in Magnolia and completing his training, Sergeant Brown 
was serving with the 5th Special Forces Group (Airborne) based at Fort 
Campbell, Kentucky. Sergeant Brown was on his second deployment to Iraq 
and had previously been awarded the Bronze Star Medal, the Purple 
Heart, a Meritorious Service Medal, an Army Commendation Medal, an Army 
Good Conduct Medal, and the National Defense Service Medal.

I come forward to honor Sergeant Brown in the truest sense of the 
word. Men and women like Sergeant Brown are truly deserving of our 
profound esteem and recognition. Stories of their courage fortify us 
and inspire us to better ourselves, our communities and our country. We 
are reminded what it means to sincerely serve others and defend a truly 
noble cause: the cause of liberty and freedom. It is with faith in 
Almighty God that we are able to find solace and peace at a time when 
our collective heart breaks. The deep sadness I feel can be nothing 
compared to the grief that is felt by Sergeant Brown's daughter, 
Alyssa, his parents, James and Rosemary, and the friends and family of 
those who have died serving their Nation in Iraq, Afghanistan and other 
places abroad. An emptiness has been created where Sergeant Brown 
existed for those who knew him and I know my words will do little to 
fill it; I can only offer my prayers and the sympathy of a grieving 
Nation. Sergeant Brown will be missed at holiday celebrations and will 
never have the chance to walk his little girl down the aisle, but I 
hope his family knows that they have the deepest respect and gratitude 
that a nation can offer.

With each soldier's life that is taken from us too early, we are 
renewed in our commitment to spreading the light of liberty to people 
and countries that have never witnessed it. The Gospel of Luke reminds 
us that, ''.
.
. to whom much is given, from him much will be 
required.'' America has been given much and much continues to be 
required. America was unique in its founding and put forth the new idea 
that the state would serve as the insurer of individual liberty and 
freedom. We continue to espouse the very best ideas of our founding, 
with Sergeant Brown acting as the modern day champion of that cause by 
standing where few would and ultimately paying for that unflinching 
bravery with his life.

The reverence we have for all those who serve and, especially, for 
Sergeant Brown and all those men and women who have sacrificed their 
lives for the cause of freedom transcends political affiliation and 
ideological differences. We put down our partisan assaults and pause to 
pay tribute to the very best of our country. It is my distinct honor to 
represent our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines and Coast Guardsmen in 
the greatest legislative body the world has ever known. Let us never 
forget that this body's existence was made possible by the sacrifice of 
men and women like Sergeant Brown and let our work here honor their 
memory and the memory of those who will fall tomorrow.

Madam Speaker, I hope those in the Chamber and those watching at home 
will join me in offering our most heartfelt prayers for Sergeant Brown, 
his family and all those families who have lost a son, a father, a 
daughter, a mother, a best friend, a wife, or a husband in the cause of 
liberty. Let us always remember their courage and the courage of their 
comrades who remain in distant jungles or far-flung deserts across the 
globe. Let us never forget their sacrifice, nor those they leave 
behind.
