# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `f53bcd70d11401d54f8323777b56a7f7`
`Mrs. DAVIS of California — 26 March 2007`

---


Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of 
H.R. 1591.

On May 1, 2003, on the U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln off the coast of San 
Diego, President Bush announced to the American public and the world 
that the mission in Iraq had been accomplished.

Now, nearly 4 years later, our military is still deeply involved in 
Iraq--with no end in sight.

This spending measure puts pressure on the Iraqi government to follow 
through on their political and security promises and ensures that our 
government will take the necessary steps to scale down our military 
involvement in Iraq.

In fact, it actually gives the Iraqis the leverage they need to push 
the agenda beyond a military solution.

This legislation may not be the preferred way to end this conflict, 
but not one good choice remains.

Up until now, Congress has been AWOL in its oversight responsibility. 
As a result, our military readiness has suffered.

Without this legislation, the readiness and strength of United States 
military will continue to degrade.

As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I cannot sit idly 
by and watch our Army and our National Guard be stretched to the brink.

Nor can we tolerate the strategic risk posed by devoting so much of 
our military's time, training and equipment to the conflict in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, without this legislation, the administration will not be 
held accountable to achieve progress and success.

Now is the time to exert oversight of this conflict and make the 
difficult, but necessary choice of establishing requirements and 
expectations.

From the deck of the U.S.S. Lincoln President Bush said, ''Other 
nations in history have fought in foreign lands and remained to occupy 
and exploit. Americans, following a battle, want nothing more than to 
return home.''

Mr. Speaker, Americans have bravely fought for 4 years to protect the 
United States and bring hope to the people of Iraq. For the sake of our 
military readiness, international credibility and safety of Americans 
in harm's way in Iraq, it is time to make plans to bring them home.



I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to take a hard look 
at where we are today in Iraq, and vote for legislation that will 
provide the funding our troops badly need and accountability for 
success and results in Iraq.
