---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `f54322c32710def095d49e5d01060ff1`
`Mr. OBEY — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Chairman, this bill, more than any other, determines 
how willing we are to make the investment necessary to assure the 
future strength of this country and its working families. We strengthen 
the country when we strengthen our families. We strengthen our country 
when we invest in workers to have the most competitive workforce in the 
world.

The decisions we make in any one year are not decisive. But if we do 
not think in long term, if we do not recognize the kind of country we 
will be in 10 years, we will not make the investments necessary to 
prepare for that world and we will be shortchanging the future of every 
American.

Because he has chosen to put his desire to give $50 billion in tax 
breaks to those make $1 million a year, and his desire to spend $140 
billion on Iraq ahead of those investments, the President has chosen to 
cut those investments by this bill by more than $7.5 billion in real 
terms.

This bill rejects most of those cuts because we cannot disinvest in 
the country's future without hurting national security and the future 
of every American family. Instead of cutting $7.5 billion, as the 
President requested, we eliminate or cut 41 programs, saving $1.1 
billion. We then increase investments in critical programs by about 
$4.5 billion in real terms, or 2.8 percent over last year, after 
adjusting for inflation and population change.

Now, why do we do that? Because in 10 years there will be 27 million 
more Americans, 12 million more seniors needing health care, 2.7 
million more kids in elementary and secondary school, 2.2 million more 
students in college, 11 million more Americans will be without health 
insurance, unless we wise up and wake up and change our policies. And 
within 7 years, half of the Nation's job growth will be in occupations 
requiring higher education skills.

To meet those challenges, with this bill we target modest increases 
to crucial high priority activities to attack deficits in worker 
training, deficits in health care, deficits in education access.

On a bipartisan basis, without a dissenting vote, we've provided $450 
million above the President's inadequate request for Title I to help an 
additional 155,000 disadvantaged students. Instead of wiping out every 
student aid program except Pell and Work Study, we rejected the 
President's cuts and raised the maximum Pell Grant by $650 over the 
last year to help over 5 million students go to college.

We reversed the 3-year decline in Federal support for special 
education. Mr. Walsh, the ranking member of this subcommittee, has 
taken a leadership role in that regard.

We reversed the President's cuts in teacher training. We provided new 
after-school opportunities for 163,000 more students.

On health care, nobody has ever come up to me at home and said, 
''Obey, why don't you guys get your act together and cut cancer 
research?'' But that's exactly what Congress did the last 2 years, 
cutting NIH research grants by over 500 grants. Well, we've stopped 
that.

In January, we reversed the President's cuts and this bill adds 
another $1 billion above the President's request, which would again cut 
research grants.

We have also included a package of five initiatives to put health 
care within the reach of more than 2 million additional Americans; $200 
million to expand access to health and dental care at community health 
centers, $75 million to help States expand health coverage for targeted 
populations, $50 million to help States provide affordable health 
insurance for 200,000 people who are medical high risks and cannot get 
insurance from the private market, $20 million to help trade impacted 
workers benefit from the Health Coverage Tax credit, and added funding 
to help Medicare beneficiaries to get health insurance counseling.

Because of high energy prices, we have added $880 million to the 
President's request for low income heating assistance, reversing half 
the cut Congress and the President made last year.

To discourage abortions, instead of lecturing, we provide a $1.4 
billion package of incentives to provide real world help to women 
through expanded Head Start, child care, domestic violence programs, 
maternal and child health care, family planning and abstinence 
programs.

To help workers, we reverse the President's cuts in a range of 
workforce training programs. We also provide a $100 million increase 
above the President to help reduce Social Security claims backlogs and 
to keep more Social Security offices open.

Now the President claims that this bill amounts to runaway spending. 
Fact: From 1980 to today, domestic appropriations, as a percentage of 
total national income, have declined hugely. The President's budget 
would cut them to a level 48 percent below the 1980 level, and by 2012, 
to a level 57 percent below 1980. That's hardly runaway growth. That is 
a steady bleed of America's quality of life and America's future.

For the President to borrow $1.2 trillion to pay for tax cuts, and 
$600 billion to pay for Iraq, including another $140 billion next year, 
and then pretend that this modest 2 percent difference with him is the 
cause of fiscal irresponsibility is sheer nonsense, and many 
enlightened Republicans know it.

These investments are not just fiscally responsible, they are 
necessary for the future health and strength of the Nation.

One other point. We will today hear complaints about earmarks in this 
bill. Let us be clear, the last time Congress was in Democratic hands 
there were no earmarks in this bill. Under Republican rule, they 
exploded from zero to over 3,000.

This bill has cut back the dollar level for earmarks to half the 
level in the 2006 bill. Exactly two-tenths of 1 percent of the total 
funding in this bill go for congressionally directed earmarks.

And let me also point out that the amount of dollars in spending 
directed by the Congress is a tiny fraction of the amount directed by 
the Administration. First, for instance, the Administration in this 
bill requests specific earmarks, $10 million for Reach Out and Read, 
$10 million for Teach for America, $9 million for the Points of Light 
Foundation, $4.5 million for America's Promise, $1.7 million for the 
Mind and Body Institute, $1.4 million for the YMCA.

On top of that, in 2006 alone, the Health and Social Services 
Department directed spending of $1.9 billion through 21,000 contracts 
that were less than fully competed. That alone is more than seven times 
the amount of congressionally directed spending in this bill.

In the Labor Department, 90 percent of discretionary funding for the 
High Growth Job Training Program was spent on a noncompetitive basis.

The Office of Inspector General found that the Education Department 
strong-armed State and local school districts to select textbooks from 
favored publishers. Madison, Wisconsin, in my own State, lost its $2 
million Reading First grant because they refused to purchase texts from 
an inferior program. Yet, the most thoroughly evaluated programs, like 
Success for All and Reading Recovery, were frozen out by the program 
administrators.

ABC reported that one publisher with good connections at the White 
House saw its corporate net worth rise from $5 million to $360 million, 
with a little help from their friends.

The Office of Inspector General has made criminal references to the 
Justice Department, and we have cut Reading First until the 
Administration changes its ways.

So I would simply say, Madam Chairman, spare us the Administration's 
sanctimony about earmarks or directed spending, and please spare us the 
pretense that this bill has anything to do


with the fiscal mess this country faces. It is a disciplined set of 
investments. Virtually every Republican amendment in committee did not 
seek to cut funding, rather it sought to increase it.

I appreciate the bipartisan support for the bill in committee. I 
appreciate the partnership with Mr. Walsh, the ranking member.

People who have reviewed it most closely, Republicans and Democrats 
alike, know this bill is responsible and disciplined.

Just one comparison. The Administration's defense request, even 
without counting the $140 billion in new money that they're asking for 
in their supplemental, that defense bill is still $43 billion above 
last year, which is at least four times as large as the difference 
between the committee and the Congress on this bill.

I would urge every Member who thinks about this country's future to 
support this bill.


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.001




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.002




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.003




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.004




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.005




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.006




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.007




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.008




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.009




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.010




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.011




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.012




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.013




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.014




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.015




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.016




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.017




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.018




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.019




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.020




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH17JY07.021





Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.