---
---

# VETERANS' BENEFITS ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2008
## `f54e989a247dbdb5d19e57de6a0cf47e`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 22 September 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my 
gratitude to all the men and women who have served and are currently 
serving in our Armed Forces. It is there courage and sacrifice that has 
paved for the rights and freedoms we enjoy.

Since September 2001, more than 1,700,000 members of the Armed Forces 
have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, and nearly 611,000 have 
been deployed more than once. Many of our men and women in the armed 
forces have given the ultimate sacrifice to secure the freedoms of 
others. As of May 3, 2008 over 4,500 died and over 32,000 wounded while 
deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring 
Freedom (Afghanistan).

The members of our Armed Forces and their families deserve all the 
medical, financial, education, and moral support that our Nation can 
provide. The resolution we considered today provides an opportunity for 
each of us, regardless of political views, religion, ethnicity, gender, 
or background to come together, and to recognize and honor our nation's 
heroes and those that support them and their families.

Though we may be divided by our positions on the war in Iraq, we 
stand together to support our veterans. Our nation has a proud legacy 
of appreciation and commitment to the men and women who have worn the 
uniform in defense of this country. We must be united in seeing that 
every soldier, sailor, airman, and marine is welcomed back with all the 
care and compassion this grateful nation can bestow.

All too many of our veterans are left without the help and support 
they need to transition from the horrors they bravely face on the front 
lines of battle to successful civilian life. According to the Veteran's 
Affairs Department, as of 2006, on any given night, 196,000 veterans of 
all ages were homeless.

The V.A. also reports 400 veterans of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan alone have already become homeless, and this figure only 
takes into account those who have sought services from V.A.-sponsored 
programs. Experts have predicted that the trauma resulting from the 
extreme horrors of these modern wars could lead to a surge in homeless 
veterans in the coming years.

Though I have opposed the war in Iraq from its inception, I remain 
absolutely committed to ensuring that we recognize, celebrate, and 
honor the service of our sons and daughters in and returning from, Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

I am proud to support S. 1315 by my colleague in the Senate, Senator 
Akaka. I firmly believe that we should celebrate and support our armed 
forces and their families, and I remain committed, as a Member of 
Congress, to both meeting the needs of veterans of previous wars, and 
to provide a fitting welcome home to those who are now serving. Current 
serving military personnel and veterans have kept their promise to 
serve our nation; they have willingly risked their lives to protect the 
country we all love. We must now ensure that we keep our promises to 
them.

