---
---

# PASSENGER RAIL INVESTMENT AND IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `f562c63a0b741cb55083367b6708cbc8`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 25 October 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, over the past few months we have sent the 
President critical legislation that invests in our country's 
transportation, economy, health and safety needs. Funding these 
priorities will make our country safer, our communities healthier, and 
our economy stronger. Unfortunately, it seems the President doesn't 
share these priorities. He has proposed to this Congress harmful budget 
cuts, and now he says he is going to veto several of these vital bills 
because we are asking for $22 billion more than he requested. He says 
our domestic spending is ''irresponsible and excessive.''

I personally find that hard to understand when, at the same time as 
he is saying that, he wants $196 billion in emergency spending for the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. By the way, that does not include any 
money for our veterans. In fact, the $22 billion we want to invest at 
home represents less than what the President spends in Iraq in 3 
months. That, not these bills, is what I think is irresponsible and 
excessive. We have to make sure we are not ignoring our needs here at 
home. The appropriations bills have the support of both parties. They 
ensure that our roads and our bridges, our airports, our railways are 
in good condition. They assure that our workers and families are 
healthy and our children have a chance to succeed. They assure that we 
have enough law enforcement officers to keep our communities safe. 
These bills simply restore some of the money the President cut and take 
a modest step forward after years of going in the wrong direction.

A healthy transportation system is vital to a healthy community. We 
need to ensure that our families can get to school or get to work and 
that goods move from place to place. But when he says no to our bill 
that provides money for transportation and housing and urban 
development, what the President is saying no to is the investments that 
ensure that our communities are strong, that prevent disasters--such as 
the bridge collapse in Minneapolis--from happening in this country 
again.

I am baffled, frankly, that the President's request for the war 
includes about $200 million for the construction of secondary roads in 
Afghanistan. He wants to spend $200 million on roads in Afghanistan but 
he is upset about our amendment to fix bridges in the United States.

Clearly, this administration thinks these projects are a priority for 
Iraq and a priority for Afghanistan; otherwise, the President would not 
have included them in his emergency spending bill for the war. So I 
ask, why doesn't the President think the roads and bridges are a 
priority in our country, in the United States?

At the same time the President is waging war overseas, we are here 
trying to make sure our employers have workers, that our families have 
access to health care, that our children get a good education. Tuesday 
night an overwhelming majority of this Senate voted to spend $11 
billion over the President's request on Labor, Health and Human 
Services and Education programs so we could do that. That bill we 
passed would invest in cutting-edge medical research for diseases such 
as Alzheimer's and diabetes and cancer, research that brings hope to 
millions of Americans. In taking that vote the other evening, a 
bipartisan group of Senators agreed to restore funds for education, for 
jobs training, for health systems, when President Bush would have left 
them to cope with yet another year of unfunded mandates and empty 
promises.

The children's health insurance bill that we approved earlier this 
year also is intended to help millions of our children. That bill, too, 
achieved a majority of support in the House and in the Senate but not 
from the President. Those bills would make Americans healthier and the 
economy more competitive. But the President disagrees. He says these 
programs are ''irresponsible and excessive.''

But guess what he proposes in his $196 billion request for Iraq and 
Afghanistan. He asks for $25 million for economic development projects 
to foster job creation--in Iraq. And $60 million to fund economic 
projects to sustain development in the tribal areas of Pakistan.

Let me say it another way. He plans to veto job creation and economic 
development right here at home, but he is asking us to spend millions 
of dollars in emergency funding on similar programs in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

The President says $196 billion that he is requesting for the war is 
necessary to make our world safer. We believe we also need to invest 
more in safety here at home. Our bill funding Commerce, Justice and 
Science programs works hard to ensure that our communities have enough 
FBI agents and police on our streets here at home. Like the other 
programs we want to fund, that bill restores the cuts that the 
President had proposed. Few bills are as important to the safety of our 
communities as that one.

I am especially concerned that the President is threatening to veto 
that bill because of how it affects my home State and the Nation. Six 
years after 9/11, the administration still has not replaced 2,400 law 
enforcement agents across the country that it reassigned to 
counterterrorism after 9/11.

In my home State of Washington, we were hit very hard by that. 
According to an investigation by the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, our 
Seattle newspaper, we have a critical shortage of FBI agents: 2.1 
agents for every 100,000 residents or about half the national average.

The shift to counterterrorism has left our law enforcement 
shorthanded. Local police and sheriffs told me that the FBI has 
''virtually disappeared'' from white-collar crime investigations. They 
told me the FBI does not have the resources today to adequately staff 
antigang task forces.

Criminals have not stopped robbing our banks or dealing drugs or 
stealing identities. An amendment I included in that bill would take 
steps to get more FBI agents into my community and wherever they are 
needed.

But the President said he is going to veto that bill. In so doing, he 
is going to veto our amendment. If we can spend $10 billion a month for 
the war in Iraq, we should be willing to spend a fraction of that to 
ensure the security of our citizens at home.

Clearly, the President is the one who is being ''excessive'' and 
''irresponsible.'' This might be an abstract debate about Federal 
funding for the President, but I think all of us know here it is about 
real people; it is about hard-working parents who are searching for a 
way to get health care for


their own families when it has not been provided by their employers. It 
is about citizens out of traffic jams, and ensuring that our roads and 
bridges are safe to drive on. It is about making sure the people we 
represent can trust that enough law enforcement officers will be there 
to fight crime in their neighborhoods.

When I travel around Washington State, people tell me they want hope 
and they want change. Whether it is the war in Iraq or gas prices or 
access to health insurance, people today feel a real weight on their 
shoulders. They are looking for a light at the end of the tunnel. By 
vetoing those important bills, and failing to invest in the safety, 
health, and economic future of all Americans, the President keeps 
putting out that light. We are investing $22 billion over last year in 
the future of our country.

I urge all of my colleagues to support these bills as we move forward 
on behalf of the millions of American children and families who would 
benefit. I hope the President is listening.

I yield the floor.