# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011--MOTION TO
## `f5629f4c0d0caa3517f48a06ebd9ee70`
`Mr. LEVIN — 21 September 2010`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, ever since an act of horrific violence on a 
bright blue morning 9 years ago, our Nation has been at war. At home 
and abroad, this war has tested our Nation, tested our military 
strength and our diplomatic skill, tested our resilience and our 
courage. Over the last few months, I fear our Nation has been in danger 
of failing one of these tests, a failure that would threaten our safety 
and the freedoms we hold so dear.

At issue is a plan to build an Islamic community center a few blocks 
away from the site of the attack on the World Trade Center and the 
larger question of whether our Nation will embrace diversity or choose 
a path of division. This is not just a question of doing the right 
thing, although it is that. It is not just a question of preserving the 
values that have made our Nation a beacon of freedom across the globe, 
although it is certainly that too. This is also a question of whether 
we will make our Nation safer by focusing on and extinguishing the 
flames of hatred that spawned the 9/11 attacks or, on the other hand, 
add fuel to the fire that threatens us.

There should be little doubt that religious intolerance has no place 
in a nation built on the idea, as Thomas Jefferson once wrote, ''that 
our civil rights have no dependence on our religious opinions.'' Our 
history is filled with moments in which we struggle to live up to that 
notion, in which Roman Catholics or Mormons or Jews or others found 
themselves beset by religious intolerance and wondering if the ideals 
set forth by our Founding Fathers would hold.

So it is in this case. American Muslims have built homes, raised 
families, and run successful businesses in communities across our 
country. They have been drawn here because of the belief, as one 
prominent member of Michigan's Arab-American community recently wrote, 
''that there is room in America for all cultural and religious 
backgrounds.''

Well, that is the America in which they chose to build their lives. 
It is the America we aspire to be, that we claim to be. We should ask 
ourselves, if we would not object to a church or synagogue at that 
location in Manhattan, how can we object to a Muslim place of worship 
and remain true to our most fundamental principles?

Upholding the promise of our founding values should be reason enough 
to resist anti-Muslim sentiment. But there are equally powerful reasons 
that rely not on values but on simple common sense. The war that began 
on September 11, 2001, is not only a war against terrorists but a war 
to isolate those terrorists from broader Muslim society. We have seen 
time and time again that when we stray from our values, it is not just 
a moral failure but a national security failure. Our troops work every 
day to keep weapons out of the hands of al-Qaida and its terrorists. 
Yet, by indulging in intolerance, we hand al-Qaida a powerful 
propaganda weapon, one to use to stoke hatred of us and to recruit the 
terrorists who threaten our troops abroad and our citizens at home. We 
have already seen in the violent and even deadly protests in 
Afghanistan how anger can spawn anger and hatred and can inspire 
hatred.

By threatening to burn holy texts or by holding an entire faith as 
somehow responsible for the actions of its most fanatic members, Osama 
bin Laden and his kind are given precisely the kind of clash of 
civilizations they so desperately seek to create.

I was heartened by the words of Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who said:




 We would be untrue to the best part of ourselves--and who 


 we are as New Yorkers and Americans--if we said ''no'' to a 


 mosque in Lower Manhattan.


I am also encouraged by the religious leaders of many faiths across 
our country who have stood up and said:




 We support the rights of all Americans to worship in their 


 chosen place, through a climate of respect, dignity and 


 peace.


I am encouraged by the words of our commander in Afghanistan, GEN 
David Petraeus, who powerfully pointed out that the acts of religious 
intolerance are ''precisely the kind of action the Taliban uses'' to 
direct hatred at our brave troops.

I am encouraged by the words of our President:







 This is America and our commitment to religious freedom 


 must be unshakeable.


I am heartened, too, by the reaction in my home State, which is home 
to a large, thriving, and valued community of Muslim Americans. The 
Grand Rapids Press has editorialized that ''[a] Manhattan mosque would 
be a powerful statement that the terrorists did not--and cannot--win.'' 
A columnist in the Detroit News wrote:




 Ground zero would seem to be the perfect place to 


 demonstrate that religious tolerance is why so many flocked 


 to our shores in the first place, and remains a key block in 


 the foundation of our freedom.


A Detroit Free Press editorial reads:




 It's not just about this being a mosque, but about the 


 religious freedom that we all hold dear, and that was such a 


 critical part of this country's founding.


Michigan civil and religious leaders of many faiths and backgrounds 
have invoked our most closely held beliefs and called on the Nation to 
speak and act in harmony with those beliefs. The power of those beliefs 
represents a powerful tool against the hatred that inspired 9/11.

The founding principles of our Nation call on us to stand with voices 
of tolerance and reason. Those who have given their all in the defense 
of those principles would surely hope that we would resist the calls to 
hatred and violence. Our moral authority depends on that. Preservation 
of the freedom that defines us depends on that. Our safety depends on 
that. I commend those who have spoken for tolerance and diversity, who 
have resisted anger and intolerance, and who in doing so have upheld 
our most important values and have made our Nation safer.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.