# JAMES ZADROGA 9/11 HEALTH AND COMPENSATION ACT OF 2010
## `f568ace82f5f337875e0f96c4837d0ae`
`Mrs. MALONEY — 29 July 2010`

---


Mrs. MALONEY. Thank you very much, Chairman Pallone, and for your 
leadership.

This week the House approved billions in new funding for the war in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, but Congress has yet to fully address the impact 
of the event that caused the war in the first place, the 9/11 terrorist 
attack.

Today we will vote on a bill that provides guaranteed help for the 
survivors of 9/11 and the brave first responders who rushed to Ground 
Zero to save the lives of others.

I thank Congressmen Nadler and King, my colleagues in the New York 
delegation, Speaker Pelosi, Leader Hoyer for their dedication to the 
heroes and heroines and the survivors of 9/11.

On 9/11, roughly 3,000 people lost their lives, but thousands and 
thousands lost their health because they rushed in to save others.

To date, the Federal Government has identified more than 20,000 
individuals who have health problems as a direct result of the attacks.

Caring for those who are suffering is a national responsibility. 
Every single State, 428 of the 435 congressional districts have someone 
enrolled in the Federal World Trade Center Health Registry because they 
were near Ground Zero or worked at Ground Zero.

The 9/11 Health and Compensation Act meets our moral responsibility 
to help those who were there to help us. It seems inconceivable to me 
that we would choose to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on wars 
in foreign lands and not spend this modest amount right here at home to 
help the warriors, the first people who were there, those who were 
there for us on 9/11 in the place where it all began. They were there 
for us; we need to be there for them.

This is the veterans of the war of 9/11, those who saved the lives of 
others. And 9/11 was a great tragedy, but it was also a great rescue 
effort, one of the greatest in history.

So I urge my colleagues to support the heroes, the heroines, the 
warriors right here at home, the first in the line of fire at Ground 
Zero where it all began.