# THE POPULIST CAUCUS
## `f56a958e36b6360572ed5dd707ea34fc`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 31 March 2009`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. I thank my friend for those profound and 
insightful comments. And I just want to respond to one of the comments 
you made before I yield to my friend from Ohio.

You talked about how important it is to the populist values and 
middle class values to be open and candid with the American people. And 
I think that's one of the things about the President's budget proposal 
and the proposal we're voting on here that is lost in all of this 
chatter you hear on cable TV and on talk radio; is that, for the first 
2 years that the three of us served in the House, all of these costs 
associated with the war in Iraq, the war in Afghanistan, were put into 
supplemental appropriations bills that were outside the normal budget 
process, and they were enormously expensive. And yet they were never 
part of the total numbers associated with President Bush's budget 
proposal to Congress. And the American people were being misled to 
believe that the budget numbers in the President's budget were an 
accurate reflection of their tax burden to support those ongoing 
efforts.

In fact, I introduced an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill 
that went even beyond that and said, we need to be truthful in 
disclosing to the American people the true cost of the war in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

And all of us had prior professional experiences where we dealt with 
people who would place a long-term economic calculation on someone's 
loss of life, what their cost was for restitution, if you're 
prosecuting someone for committing a crime for the injury they caused 
to somebody. And you can hire economists that take the life expectancy 
of an individual, what their medical needs are going to be, especially 
if you consider the signature injuries in Iraq, which are post-
traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury and amputations.

And yet, we were getting nothing from the Department of Defense and 
the Bush administration about those defined, long-term costs that we 
owe to the veterans of this country who sacrificed honorably to protect 
and defend us. And yet, that is a huge component of the cost of the war 
that we have been prosecuting.

So I think you made an excellent point about what's really in this 
budget message is we're going to be honest with you; we're in a 
difficult time economically, but it's time for the American people to 
hear the plain truth about what it costs to run this government and put 
us back on a positive track. And I thank you for that.

And with that, I'm going to yield to my good friend from Ohio, Betty 
Sutton, who's been a strong advocate for middle class values, for 
populist messages and for the working trade group. And I would like you 
to share with us some of the reasons why you decided to join the 
Populist Caucus, and where you see this adventure going in the future.