---
---

# DEFENSE SUPPLEMENTAL SPENDING
## `f57e71f0d0e710343c74fcab89586a2d`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the supplemental spending request that 
was sent to Congress last year by the President was unambiguous: the 
funds were to be spent on forces in the field, on the men and women 
fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq, and on their families here at home.

Last week, the Democratic leadership of the House showed us what they 
thought of that request. They took it up, hollowed it out, and filled 
the shell with a raft of unrelated domestic spending projects and 
policy proposals that did not include a dime for the troops in the 
field. House Democrats took a request meant for the troops and used it 
to fuel their own domestic spending habits. Then they sent this piece 
of legislation over to the Senate on the eve of Memorial Day and told 
us to vote for it. The Senate was being asked to vote not on troop 
funding but on two other amendments. One included unemployment benefits 
and a Medicaid proposal. The other sought to undermine the 
constitutional powers of the Commander in Chief by proposing a 
withdrawal date from Iraq.

Unfortunately, our Democratic friends in the Senate made it even 
worse. Taking up what they got from the House, they added even more 
unrelated policy proposals. In the name of combat readiness, Senate 
Democrats also sought to restrict the ability of our military 
commanders to deploy forces, ignoring the fact that the surest way to 
degrade troop readiness is to delay the delivery of funds that are used 
to prepare and train our forces in the first place.

Taken together, it seems the only issue unaddressed by the Democratic 
leadership in the House and Senate is the only one that matters: how 
and when we will fund our forces in the field.

The bottom line is this: Tasked with the responsibility of funding 
our forces in the field, Democrats in the House and Senate neglected 
that task in favor of domestic spending and freelance policy proposals 
that we know in the end will not be signed into law--this despite the 
fact that the House will soon take up the Defense authorization bill, 
which is ordinarily the vehicle for the kind of policy proposals our 
friends on the other side have included in the supplemental spending 
request. The House has failed in its basic responsibility. It is my 
hope the Senate will do better.

While some of our friends on the other side seem to be counting on 
the fact that most Americans are distracted by the ongoing Presidential 
contest, the families and friends of U.S. soldiers and marines who are 
fighting overseas are, indeed, paying attention.

The President sent a request to fund these men and women. As long as 
they remain in harm's way, we have a strict obligation to give them 
what they need. On this point, there really should not even be a 
debate. The Senate must pass a bill funding our troops free of 
restrictions on their ability to win and free of spending unrelated to 
their mission. And we must try to do it by Memorial Day. In less than a 
month, the Defense Department will be unable to make payroll for our 
uniformed Army unless Congress approves the President's supplemental 
spending request. Less than a month after that, funds for operations 
and maintenance will also run dry. It may be convenient for those 
focused on the political calendar to ignore these pressing needs, but 
ignoring them really does not make them go away.

I hope the Senate will do its duty this week. The majority leader 
just indicated it is challenging. Of course, it is always challenging 
to do that. But we need to do our duty this week. Our forces in Baghdad 
and Ramadi will not be taking a week off for a recess.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.