# None
## `f586af3a6a46f2e81f5a3a3bc7b218f1`
`Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida â€” 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida. I thank my friend, the 
distinguished chairwoman, Ms. Slaughter, for the time, and I yield 
myself such time as I may consume.

Today the House will consider the bipartisan conference report for 
the 2010 National Defense Authorization legislation. With this 
important legislation, I think we are sending the message to our men 
and women in uniform that we support them and that we deeply appreciate 
their service.

The conference report authorizes over $550 billion for the activities 
of the Department of Defense. It also provides approximately $130 
billion to support our combat operations in Afghanistan, in Iraq, and 
other fronts of the war on international terrorism.

I wish to commend both the Armed Services Committee chairman, Mr. 
Skelton, and the ranking member, Mr. McKeon, both good friends and 
admired colleagues, for their commitment that they have demonstrated in 
this legislation to put partisanship aside in order to get this 
important legislation to the President.

While I support the conference report, I know it is not perfect. No 
human endeavor is. But I believe that the conference report will 
strengthen our national security and help modernize our military. It 
will provide servicemembers and their families with improved health 
care, support, and quality-of-life programs. I'm pleased that it 
includes the House-passed 3.4 percent pay raise for our troops instead 
of the lower request that had come from the President.

Furthering our commitment to our troops, the bill extends TRICARE 
eligibility to Reserve members so they can receive full TRICARE 
coverage 180 days before they go on active duty and will prevent 
increases in copayments for inpatient care at civilian hospitals under 
TRICARE. The bill provides over $2 billion for family housing programs 
to expand and improve the quality of military housing.

The legislation authorizes the expansion of our military by 30,000 
Army troops, 8,100 marines, and over 14,000 Air Force personnel and 
approximately 2,500 members of the Navy.



I would like to thank the members of the conference committee for 
including my request for authorization for funding for the finalization 
of construction of a new permanent headquarters for the United States 
Southern Command that is located in the congressional district that I 
am honored to represent. Currently, the Department of Defense is 
leasing the land for SOUTHCOM from a private individual. The funds 
authorized in this legislation will be used to complete construction of 
the new headquarters on land adjacent to the current location and lease 
it from the State of Florida for the sum of $1 per year.

This provision is extremely important to my community because 
SOUTHCOM personnel and supporting services have contributed over $1.2 
billion and over 20,000 jobs to south Florida's economy.

As a supporter of the Matthew Shepard Hate Crimes Prevention Act, I 
am pleased to see that it was included in the underlying legislation, 
though I wish that the provision would have been expanded to include 
also more serious penalties for crimes against members of the armed 
services and their families. There are people who hate our armed 
services for what they symbolize, and our armed services, I think, 
deserve the additional protection from crimes of violence.

There are aspects of this legislation, obviously, with which I 
disagree, Mr. Speaker. Since the beginning of military aviation, the 
United States has very wisely invested in our military air superiority. 
In recent military operations, we've clearly seen that our investments 
pay off. Our military air superiority saves the lives of our men and 
women in uniform, and it saves the lives of countless civilians. That's 
why I am very disappointed that the underlying legislation fails to 
include funding for the F-22, the world's most advanced fighter plane 
and one that we may very well need in future operations. Obviously not 
against ragtag terrorists, but against the superpowers of the future.

I hope and pray that this shortsighted decision will not hurt the 
long-term safety of our Nation and our men and women in uniform.

I also have deep reservations about the decision to block full 
funding restoration for missile defense. This unwise decision, in my 
opinion, comes at a time when the demented despot of North Korea 
continues to mock global condemnation of his nuclear program and 
threatens the United States and our friends and allies with 
destruction.

The Iranian tyranny, while it continues to massacre its people in the 
streets perhaps today in a less public manner than a few months ago, 
nevertheless continues to massacre its people. It also threatens to 
wipe Israel off the face of the map. It's clear to me that the world 
faces a grave and I believe imminent threat from the dictatorships in 
North Korea and Iran, and now is not the time to cut missile defense. 
Unfortunately, because of the request from the executive branch and


acquiescence here on the part of the leadership, it is occurring, and I 
think it is a mistake.

I would have liked to have seen included in this legislation section 
1226 of the Senate version of the bill, which would have required a 
report to Congress on the Republic of China's--that's free China, 
Taiwan--defense capabilities. That report would have greatly enhanced 
the ability of Congress and the administration to assess their 
obligations to sell defense articles as required under the Taiwan 
Relations Act, ''as may be necessary to enable Taiwan to maintain a 
sufficient self-defense capability.''

The peace in that area has been maintained because this Congress, 
throughout the decades ever since the betrayal of Taiwan, this Congress 
has insisted on the United States selling, making available for 
purchase by the Republic of China, the military equipment and 
technology necessary to deter an armed attack. So I am sorry that that 
provision that was in the Senate legislation is not included in the 
final conference report.

Again, despite the aspects of the legislation with which I do not 
agree, I feel that overall this legislation is necessary and that we 
pass it. Obviously although it's not perfect, it helps modernize and it 
supports our military forces. It provides our men and women in uniform 
with support they need and deserve.

So I would ask my colleagues, as I have done, to look further than 
the aspects with which one may disagree within the legislation and pass 
it.

I reserve the balance of my time