---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE STRONG ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE  UNITED STATES
## `f5902d3b35e97daca4b0ae5257b16a01`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 11 June 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 
295, a resolution that recognizes the strong alliance between the 
Republic of Korea and the United States and further expresses 
appreciation to the Republic of Korea for its efforts in the global war 
against terrorism. The dynamic and strong relations that exist between 
the United States and Republic of Korea serve as a model for 
partnerships the United States must continue to seek to establish and 
cultivate with other countries within the Asia-Pacific region and 
throughout the world.

The contributions made by the government of the Republic of Korea 
toward helping battle terrorism are vital to providing for safety and 
security throughout the world. The efforts on the part of the Republic 
of Korea to help fight terrorists in Afghanistan and Iraq and help 
develop democratic governance, strengthen civil society, and establish 
stronger economies in those countries are of particular importance to 
the United States and our allies. These missions are challenging ones. 
Their eventual, positive outcomes are less than certain at this point. 
The commitment to achieving success in Operation Enduring Freedom and 
Operation Iraqi Freedom displayed by the Republic of Korea is 
commendable and an important component of the Coalition force 
structure.

Efforts on the part of South Korea to encourage the government of 
North Korea to act in a responsible manner with respect to its 
misguided pursuit of nuclear weapons and ballistic missile technology 
are also of paramount importance at this time to the United States and 
our allies. I am encouraged by the strong partnership that has been 
formed between the United States and South Korea and other countries 
with respect to this issue.

I welcome the opportunity to continue to work with our South Korean 
allies toward ensuring a more peaceful, stable, and prosperous Asia-
Pacific region and world. I am confident that the United States and 
South Korea will develop even stronger political, economic, and 
security ties in the years ahead. I urge my colleagues to support this 
resolution.