---
---

# FUTURE INVOLVEMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
## `f598904fd33915164a652f9005594c30`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. The answer is no. He's had his chance. He blew it. I 
wouldn't trust that government to tell me the correct time after what 
they have done over the last 8 years. We have been supporting this 
system for 8 years. This war just didn't start. We have been there for 
8 years. At some point, enough is enough. The idea of supporting a 
government that is corrupt and incompetent and saying that we're going 
to keep this government in power, we're going to help support them, our 
men and women are going to die for this government, and then at some 
point magically everything is supposed to be perfect, that we hand over 
everything back to this government that has stolen from the American 
taxpayers, this government that is guilty of fraud--I think that this 
is a mistake. And 57 Members of this House, bipartisan Members of this 
House, sent a letter to President Obama saying ''no'' to the increase 
in American forces there. And I think there's a lot more that feel that 
way. I'd like to insert this into the Congressional Record.

















Congress of the United States,
















 Washington, DC, September 25, 2009.


 Hon. Barack Obama,


 President of the United States,


 The White House,


 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. President, as you consider the latest assessment 


 of U.S. military engagement in Afghanistan by General Stanley 


 A. McChrystal, we urge you to reject any recommendation to 


 increase the number of combat troops there, particularly in 


 the absence of a well-defined military exit strategy.



 We have enormous confidence in the ability of the U.S. 


 military, but we question the effectiveness of committing our 


 troops to a prolonged counterinsurgency war that could last 


 ten years or more, involve hundreds of thousands of troops, 


 and impose huge financial costs on taxpayers already saddled 


 with trillions of dollars of government debt.



 According to General Charles Krulak (retired), the 31st 


 Commandant of the Marine Corps, the current strategy of 


 protecting the people of Afghanistan with U.S. forces would 


 require an escalation of several hundred thousand additional 


 troops. He warns that our military has already been 


 overburdened: ''Not only are our troops being run ragged but, 


 equally important and totally off most people's radar 


 screens, our equipment is being run ragged.'' It is unlikely 


 that our NATO allies will be able to sustain the political 


 support necessary for continuing such a mission placing even 


 more of a burden on American forces and the American people.



 2009 is already the deadliest year for U.S. forces since 


 the war began eight years ago. Fifty-one of the seven hundred 


 and thirty-eight U.S. soldiers who have lost their lives in 


 Afghanistan were killed last month alone.



 The national Afghanistan election that U.S. Ambassador Karl 


 Eikenberry hoped would lead to a ''renewal of trust of the 


 Afghan people for their government'' was a disaster and will 


 almost certainly have the opposite effect. The official 


 Electoral Complaints Commission in Afghanistan has announced 


 that is has found ''clear and convincing evidence of fraud.'' 


 A government already mired in allegations of widespread fraud 


 and incompetence is now facing serious charges and compelling 


 evidence that it has attempted to steal the national 


 election.



 A February 2009 ABC/BBC/ARD poll found that only 18 percent 


 of Afghans support increasing the number of U.S. troops in 


 their country. This should come as no surprise. Historically, 


 Afghans have always forcefully resisted the presence of 


 foreign military forces, be they British, Soviet or American. 


 The presence of our forces strengthens the hand of Taliban 


 recruiters. Indeed, an independent analysis early this year 


 by the Carnegie Institute concluded that the presence of 


 foreign troops is probably the single most important factor 


 in the resurgence of the Taliban.



 We support your administration's declared goals of 


 defeating Al Qaeda and reducing the global terrorist threat. 


 But, we believe that adding even more U.S. troops to the 


 military escalation that your administration ordered in March 


 would be counterproductive. We urge you to consider and 


 pursue the full range of alternative options including 


 applying the lessons of the Cold War where we isolate and 


 contain those who pose a threat to our national security.



 Mr. President, the last thing that our nation needs as it 


 struggles with the pain of a severe economic crisis and a 


 mountain of debt is another military quagmire. We believe 


 that this is why recent polls consistently show that a 


 majority of Americans are opposed to a military escalation in 


 Afghanistan. We urge you to reject any recommendation for a 


 further escalation of U.S. military forces there.



 Sincerely,



 List of Signatures on Bipartisan Letter to President Obama 


 Urging the Rejection to an Increase in Number of U.S. Combat 


 Troops in Afghanistan:




 James P. McGovern, Walter Jones, Ron Paul, Ed Whitfield, 





 Neil Abercrombie, Jim McDermott, Pete Stark, Bruce 





 Braley, Phil Hare, Raul Grijalva, Lynn Woolsey, Lloyd 





 Doggett, Bob Filner, John Olver, Jose Serrano, Barbara 





 Lee, Jerry Costello, Ben Ray Lujan Alan Grayson.






 Peter Welch, Kurt Schrader, Tammy Baldwin, Ed Pastor, 





 Yvette Clarke, Sheila Jackson-Lee, John Lewis, Carolyn 





 B. Maloney, Richard Neal, Diane Watson, John Conyers, 





 Jr., Dennis Kucinich, Tim Johnson (IL), Steve Cohen, 





 Keith Ellison, Donna Edwards, Laura Richardson, Michael 





 Honda, Jan Schakowsky.




 Daniel Maffei, Steve Kagen, Michael Capuano, Sam Farr, 





 Chellie Pingree, Luis Gutierrez, Maurice Hinchey, 





 Maxine Waters, Mazie Hirono, Jared Polis, Roscoe 





 Bartlett, John J. Duncan, Jr., Dana Rohrabacher, Mike 





 Michaud, Earl Blumenauer, Rush Holt, Mike Quigley, 





 Peter DeFazio, Jerrold Nadler.


I think the American people are way ahead of us on this issue. The 
American people get it. They know we're getting sucked into a quagmire, 
they know we're getting sucked into a war that has no end, and they 
don't want any part of it. All I'm simply saying is, if al Qaeda is our 
enemy, then let's focus on al Qaeda. Let's not get bogged down in a war 
that has no end.

Alexander the Great found out he wasn't so great in Afghanistan. 
Genghis Khan couldn't do anything in Afghanistan; the British, the 
Soviet Union. I think we got bogged down in a war there, and I think 
there's a strong argument to be made that's one of the reasons the 
Soviet Union fell.

So we need to debate this thoroughly. We need to know what we're 
doing. We owe this to our constituents, we owe this to our country. So 
I hope that before any escalation of American forces occurs that there 
is a full and thorough debate in this Congress and a vote up or down on 
whether or not we should send more troops.

I thank the gentleman.