---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f599405059c3b6cbfc1638716397db03`
`Mrs. MALONEY of New York — 28 March 2007`

---


Mrs. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Mr. Chairman, the American people voted for change, and this 
Democratic leadership has given them change, not only in the direction 
in Iraq but the direction in our budget.

I repeat, it is unbelievable. I am mystified that the Republican 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle are talking fiscal 
discipline. Let us remember, they are the ones that gave us the largest 
debt in history, $9 trillion, the largest trade deficit, over $859 
billion, and they turned the $5.6 trillion 10-year budget surplus into 
a $2.3 trillion deficit. That is what they gave this country.

Within the first 100 hours of this Congress, the new Democratic 
leadership instituted pay-as-you-go budgeting requiring that new 
spending be offset. In other words, we are not spending money we don't 
have. We are not going to grow that deficit. Adhering to this policy 
helped turn deficits into surpluses in the 1990s during the Clinton 
administration but was abandoned by the Bush administration and the 
Republican-controlled Congress. That is what led us to these huge debts 
and deficits.

Today, Democrats in Congress present a realistic budget plan that 
adheres to PAYGO principles for controlling the deficit and bringing 
revenues into line with the amount we need to spend to defend the 
country and take care of the needs of our citizens.

Our budget provides health care for millions of additional uninsured 
children. We make investments in veterans health care and benefits. We 
restore critical funding for first responders and State and local law 
enforcement.

In order to spur innovation that will keep America number one in the 
world, we provide increased funding for the National Science 
Foundation, increase investments in math and science and education, and 
make college more affordable for our young people, investing in the 
future of our country.

We also expand renewable energy and energy efficiency to reduce 
global warming and dependence on foreign oil.

Democrats target tax relief to those who need it most. Our plan 
protects 19 million middle-American families from a tax increase by 
setting up a reserve fund for a long-term fix for the alternative 
minimum tax, which is snagging millions more families each year in its 
widening net. We pay for these tax cuts in part by eliminating tax 
loopholes and closing the tax gap to make sure that middle-class 
families don't have to pay the tab for tax cheats.

Mr. Chairman, this budget resolution is an important step toward 
putting our fiscal house back in order and creating greater economic 
opportunities and prosperity for all American families.