---
---

# IRAQ SUPPLEMENTAL
## `f59d5a25c0e1aeeb23c60cbb4a3e79ce`
`Mr. BOND â€” 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, this is going to be a very busy day. I have 
comments that will relate to what will happen when we bring the bill up 
on the floor, but I thought I would take this time to talk about two 
things that are extremely important. First, with respect to the bill, I 
am the lead Republican cosponsor, with the Senators from North Dakota 
and South Dakota, on ag disaster. We have been 3 years without an 
agricultural disaster bill. We have had 3 years of agricultural 
disasters. Those of us from the Midwest know that we have been 
afflicted with droughts, tornadoes, tremendous losses by farmers, 
livestock producers, and others in agricultural production. I visited 
southwest Missouri this January and saw what some people described as 
countywide tornadoes. The ice storms were so severe they broke down 
trees, collapsed sheds, knocked out power, broke down fences, and put 
many livestock and poultry producers on the verge of financial 
disaster.

Similarly over the years, when drought has struck, the ag producers, 
livestock and poultry and crops, were hit severely. This ag disaster 
package is absolutely essential. I appreciate the lead of the chairman 
of the Appropriations Committee in including our request for ag 
disaster.

In addition, I am a very strong supporter of the amendment of the 
ranking minority member of the Appropriations Committee to strike the 
limitations on the ability of General Petraeus to conduct the war in 
Iraq. Let us remember that General Petraeus came before the committees 
to outline his new ideas, his new plan for moving forward in Iraq. 
People had been saying: We need a new plan. Yes, clearly, we need a new 
plan. The Bremer plan, debaathification, firing the Army, sending them 
home without pay and with their weapons, turns out to have been the 
absolute wrong thing to do. But General Petraeus, who was unanimously 
confirmed by this body, has gone back to Iraq with his new way of going 
forward.

They have made some significant changes in the rules of engagement. 
Now no longer are Shia death squads or militia off-limits. Moqtada al-
Sadr has seen the light or felt the heat, and he has gone to Tehran. We 
are talking action against Jaysh al-Mahdi and others who are engaged in 
sectarian battles. We have a new plan of going in, holding, and 
clearing, the conventional and now-proven theory of dealing with 
insurgencies. You cannot just go in and wipe out people who are causing 
chaos and killing their political enemies. You have to stay there and 
maintain peace, security. That is what we are supporting the Iraqi 
forces doing. The Iraqi forces are there. They are the ones who are 
going to have to take over. The training of the Iraqi forces is the 
critical element for us to assure stability in the region.

Many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle and on mine 
embraced the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. For example, the 
distinguished majority whip on December 8 on CNN said:




 We ought to follow the Iraqi Study Group.


This new plan the President and General Petraeus have put forward is, 
by and large, the Iraq Study Group's plan. After receiving the report, 
when you look at the recommendations, they track with what we are doing 
now, from sending reinforcements to Baghdad to increasing the number of 
embedded American advisers, to holding the Iraqi Government responsible 
for specific security and political milestones. The differences between 
what we are doing now in Iraq and the Iraq Study Group recommendations 
are insignificant. Sending reinforcements to Baghdad, the principal 
tenet of the new plan General Petraeus has put forth, is referenced in 
general by the Iraq Study Group, which said it could support a short-
term redeployment or surge of American combat forces to stabilize 
Baghdad, recognizing the level of violence in and around Baghdad has 
crippled the ability of both the al-Maliki Government and the U.S. 
military to restore basic services and establish a modicum of law and 
order. I quote:




 The ISG recognized, as does the U.S. military, that Baghdad 


 is central to success or failure in Iraq. It is not 


 surprising that more troops were added--the total number of 


 which is still below 2005 levels.


There is one other very important point that is of concern to 
everybody in this body and all Americans. The Iraq Study Group said:




 The United States should not make an open-ended commitment 


 to keep large numbers of American troops deployed in Iraq.


President Bush said of his plan and its implementation:




 I've made it clear to the Prime Minister and Iraq's other 


 leaders that America's commitment is not open-ended. If the 


 Iraqi government does not follow through on its promises, it 


 will lose the support of the American people.


It is clear we have a new way forward. The language in the underlying 
legislation before us says we ought to set a timetable, a political 
timetable. We ought to determine in this body exactly the dates when we 
start removing troops from Baghdad, from Iraq, changing our policy.

I have a novel idea: Wars cannot be run from these hallowed and 
comfortable and sanctified chambers 10,000 miles away from the war 
zone. How about allowing the officers, the men, and the commanders in 
the field--who are engaged daily, risking their lives to bring peace 
and security to Iraq--to determine when and how we can best turn over 
to the Iraqi security forces the critical job--the critical job--of 
assuring security and a relatively peaceful country? Nobody is saying 
it is going to be a Jeffersonian democracy. What we are seeking is 
peace and security.

We had an open hearing with the leaders of the intelligence community 
in January before the Senate Intelligence Committee. The top leaders of 
that intelligence community said, unanimously, it would be very unwise 
to establish a short-term political timetable for withdrawal prior to 
the


time the Iraqi security forces take over.

If this body, in its ''wisdom''--an oxymoron in this case--says pull 
out on such-and-such date, and the Iraqi security forces are not ready 
to take over, what would happen? Three things--all of them bad.

No. 1, the killing, sectarian violence between Shia and Sunnis would 
escalate. You would see many more thousands killed, as we would no 
longer be there to serve as a buffer and as adviser to prevent that 
from happening.

No. 2, the goal of al-Qaida, as expressed by Osama bin Laden and his 
No. 2 man, Ayman al-Zawahiri, to achieve the headquarters of the 
caliphate in the ''land of the two rivers,'' i.e., Baghdad, would be 
achieved. They would have a safe haven. They would have a safe haven 
from which they could train, recruit, perhaps even get back to turning 
on the dual-use facilities Saddam Hussein set up for turning out 
chemical or biological weapons.

Now, the third thing that would happen, which is a true disaster, 
would be the neighboring countries would have to come in to back up 
their co-religionists. If the Sunnis are being oppressed by the Shia, 
then the Sunni states will be ready, and they will come in. If they 
come in, Iran and its Shia partners are all ready to come in.

What happens then? We have a conflagration in the Middle East 
bringing in many countries in a region-wide war that will draw, 
unfortunately, perhaps hundreds of thousands of American troops to 
prevent the disaster from spreading, to support our friends in Israel.

General Petraeus has promised, in his confirmation hearings, that he 
will tell us if the new plan, the new rules of engagement--putting the 
Iraqi security forces out front, with American advisers continuing to 
supply American troops to go after the high-value targets, the radical 
Salafist jihadists of al-Qaida and other entities--we will continue to 
hunt them down so they do not overwhelm the Iraqi security forces.

General Petraeus will tell us. He should know by this summer if it 
fails. If it fails, he said he will tell us, and I would trust he would 
begin making such changes as are necessary, without tipping off the 
enemy what they are planning to do. The important thing is not telling 
the enemy what our timetable is.

I think it is perhaps illustrative to share with you some comments 
from an e-mail I received from a marine who has been in Iraq and who is 
going back. He was commenting on a timetable. He said: I haven't polled 
all of them. I don't speak for all of them, but I can tell you, a 
lion's share think a timetable is a disastrous idea. I don't know what 
possible benefit you can assess that would come from a timetable. Where 
is the help toward mission accomplishment?

He said: Iraqis understand that progress is being made. I think the 
Iraqi forces are getting ready to take over and with our help should be 
able to do it sometime in 2007. But if we tell everyone exactly when 
that is going to be, it gets a lot easier for the merry mujahedin to 
claim victory, lay low, and then wreak havoc when the coalition packs 
up shop.

This particular marine said: I'm not wild about going back to Iraq, 
but I would sure as heck rather do that than essentially invalidate 
everything we've done to date by leaving too early and inviting chaos.

That is the choice. Does a political timetable give Members cover 
back here? Maybe. But I have even heard that ridiculed. I have heard 
that ridiculed. I ask this body to strike the language, let General 
Petraeus run the war, let him pursue every avenue to assure Iraq is 
stable and secure. He and the President have said, if it does not work, 
we will change policy. But let's give it a chance to work.

Mr. President, I appreciate the indulgence of my colleagues and yield 
the floor.
