---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `f5b03d199d4c05cc82eb5698cb4c67e3`
`Mrs. GILLIBRAND — 17 December 2010`

---


Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the DREAM 
Act. This legislation is critically important. Not only is this a 
humanitarian issue, but also an economic and security issue. In order 
to compete in a 21st century world, we must provide education 
opportunities to all of our students.

Our current laws unfairly penalize thousands of young adults, many of 
whom know only the United States as home, denying them the opportunity 
to achieve the American dream. Current law paralyzes the lives of these 
young people, effectively banning them from college and the military.

Former Secretary of State Colin Powell has publically advocated in 
support of the DREAM Act, calling it crucial to our national security 
and our ability to compete in the global marketplace in the coming 
generations. In a time when our military is strained because of demands 
in Afghanistan, Iraq and other places of concern around the world, we 
should be allowing all of our best and our brightest to serve.

The DREAM Act allows young people with good moral character who 
attend college or provide significant service to our military with an 
earned path to citizenship. These are young people who received all 
their education in the


United States and know only the United States as home. We need 
comprehensive immigration reform, but this is an instance where current 
law is unfairly penalizing thousands of young adults who did nothing 
wrong.

I want to take this opportunity to highlight the story of a young New 
Yorker who exemplifies the DREAM Act. Cesar Vargas was brought by his 
parents to the United States when he was only 5 years old. It was not 
his decision to come here, but he grew up in New York, graduated from 
high school, completed college, and is now in his final year of school 
at City University of New York School of Law, with a 3.8 GPA. He dreams 
of becoming a military lawyer after he graduates. But, he cannot 
fulfill his dream of serving in our military because he is 
undocumented. Our country would benefit from the dedication of young 
men and women like Cesar, who grew up as our neighbors and our 
children's class mates and friends--young men and women who want to 
serve this great nation of immigrants and give back to the country they 
call home.

This legislation creates opportunities for young people who did not 
come here on their own choosing, and ensures that they will become 
productive members of our society. For these reasons, I support this 
measure and I implore my colleagues in the Senate to vote in support of 
this measure, as well.