# RECOGNIZING THE GOOD WORK OF ED AND MARY ETTEL
## `f5bf42dc72b391ee180740b1787e9427`
`Mr. CORNYN — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I join my colleagues from Georgia, 
Senators Chambliss and Isakson, in talking about the news from Iraq. It 
is important as we discuss the challenges we still face and that the 
Iraqi people still face in Iraq to talk about the complete picture. 
Unfortunately, while we have heard much of violence in Iraq, and the 
challenges that face us, we have not heard enough about the successes 
the American military and our Iraqi allies are meeting with in that 
country.

It wasn't that long ago that the surge General Petraeus, the 
counterinsurgency strategy that he is the architect of and which he has 
executed, was called a failure on the floor of the Senate. It is 
ironic, looking back, as sometimes it is helpful to go back and learn 
from history--and you do not have to go back very far, actually, just 
the summer and the spring of this year--when leaders on the other side 
of the aisle called the surge a failure.

The most ironic part of it is that General Petraeus, the commander of 
the multinational forces in Iraq at the time, said: We have not even 
started the surge yet, so let me have a few months.

Well, General Petraeus has now had a few months, and the surge has 
now had an opportunity to make a difference. In fact, there is much 
positive news to report. I have to think the biggest mistake the 
naysayers have made is to bet against the men and women of the U.S. 
military. That is always a mistake, because the American military men 
and women have demonstrated they can accomplish the goals they set out 
to do, and they are making a tremendous difference in Iraq in 
eliminating terrorist strongholds, as we continue to train the Iraqi 
military to take our place.

As I have always said, we all want to bring our troops home. The 
question is, are we going to bring our troops home based on conditions 
on the ground and the Iraqis' ability to secure and stabilize their own 
country or are we going to do it regardless of the consequences in a 
way that will create the potential for a failed state in Iraq, another 
terrorist haven, and encourage our sworn enemies in Iran and elsewhere, 
embolden them to think that America cannot be trusted and America will 
turn its back on our allies?

In May, one of our senior colleagues said the surge was supposed to 
bring stability essential to political reconciliation and economic 
reconstruction. But he said at the time: It has not and it will not. 
One short month later, the majority leader and the Speaker of the 
House, in a letter to the President, wrote: As many had foreseen, the 
escalation has failed to produce the intended results. The increase in 
U.S. forces has had little impact in curbing the violence or fostering 
political reconciliation.

We even bore witness to atrocious ads run by organizations such as 
moveon.org slandering General Petraeus before he even had a chance to 
come here and to report on the status of the surge in September.

Well, the numbers do not lie, to the dismay of many Americans. Some 
of my colleagues have chosen to conveniently gloss over and try to 
explain away the progress that has been made by General Petraeus's 
counterinsurgency strategy. Far from being a simple increase in troops, 
we learned General Petraeus's strategy was a new way to attack the 
enemy in Iraq, that is, utilize support from both local Iraqi citizens 
and tribal leaders to form an offensive against insurgent and terrorist 
groups, and the strategy has met with a resounding success.

It has become a common story, but one worth repeating, that Al Anbar 
Province, a Sunni stronghold, was virtually overrun and lost to 
American and Iraqi forces, because al-Qaida basically had its way with 
that region, had terrorized the people so much that they would not 
stand up and fight them and basically were being held as victims of 
terror.

Now the so-called Anbar awakening has occurred. Tribal leaders have 
come forward and volunteered their people to serve in the Iraqi police 
force and the Iraqi security forces. Now Al Anbar Province has 
essentially been rid of organized al-Qaida strongholds.

The Washington Post editorial page on October 14 recognized the 
decreased violence in Iraq and noted that evidence of a drop in 
violence in Iraq is becoming hard to dispute. In September, Iraqi 
civilian deaths were down 52 percent from August, and 77 percent from 
September. The Iraqi Health Ministry and the Associated Press reported 
similar results. We are thankful that American casualties are down as 
well.

Numbers recently released by the Pentagon corroborate the progress 
occurring in Iraq in and around Baghdad. The DOD reports terrorist 
operations are down by 59 percent; operations targeting Iraqi forces 
more than 60 percent; car bombs are down by 65 percent; casualties due 
to enemy attacks are down by 77 percent; and violence during this last 
Ramadan period was the lowest in 3 years.

But perhaps the most convincing evidence that things, good things, 
are happening in Iraq, is the fact that the Iraqi people are beginning 
to move back into areas they had previously left behind, hopeless that 
peace and security could ever be accomplished. According to recent news 
reports, even cab drivers are feeling it is safer to drive around 
Baghdad neighborhoods where sectarian violence once made it impossible 
for them to enter.

But perhaps the most telling story of increased security in Baghdad 
is one told by the Iraqi people themselves.

According to an Associated Press article from this past weekend, 
thousands of Iraqi refugees who previously fled their homes in Iraq for 
the relative safety of neighboring Syria have now returned to their 
home country. While it is easy for some skeptics to second-guess 
numbers and statistics pertaining to the security situation in


Iraq, it is nearly impossible to ignore the fact that thousands of 
Iraqis who not long ago were living as refugees in a foreign country 
now feel safe enough to come home. This reversal of refugee trends 
clearly indicates that there are good things happening in Iraq and 
around Baghdad.

The AP reports that ''In a dramatic turnaround, more than 3,000 Iraqi 
families driven out of their Baghdad neighborhoods have returned to 
their homes in the past three months as sectarian violence has 
dropped.'' The article goes on to quote one refugee who returned home 
to his neighborhood of Khadra. ''In Khadra,'' he said, ''about 15 
families have returned from Syria.'' He said, ''I've called friends and 
family still there and told them it's safe to come home.''

Where there was once widespread fear among Iraqi citizens, we are now 
seeing something new--hope, hope for a better and safer future. Nothing 
confirms this more than the return of refugees and their testimony that 
it is becoming safer in Iraq. While not yet safe, no one is saying the 
job has been completed, but surely an honest, objective appraisal would 
acknowledge the improvements in the security situation as demonstrated 
not only by these statistics but by testimonials from Iraqis 
themselves.

These heartwarming accounts of families reuniting in neighborhoods, 
which not long ago had been written off as hopeless, and businesses 
opening their doors are important lessons for us all. The strategy 
employed by General Petraeus has worked and is continuing to work. The 
efforts of our military men and women who have put their hearts and 
souls into this mission are now paying dividends and producing results.

These security gains are not a fluke. What we are seeing is a direct 
result of a carefully designed strategy which includes ramped-up 
counterinsurgency operations, increased efforts to foster cooperation 
and reconciliation among local tribes, and our continued backing of the 
hard work of the American military and support for their families.

As we are presented with funding requests by the Pentagon to bring 
about a stable and peaceful Iraq, we are ensuring that our soldiers 
have the resources they need to bring peace and stability to a 
tumultuous land. My hope is we will not use the funding request from 
the Pentagon for continued support for our troops as another political 
football, as it has been used in the past, particularly in the face of 
such hopeful and promising news for which I would expect we would be 
grateful and thank our men and women in uniform and their families who 
have sacrificed so much to help bring this about, along with our Iraqi 
allies.

General Petraeus told reporters this past weekend:




 In general, we think that there are no al-Qaeda strongholds 


 at this point.


While he was quick to remind us that they are still a potent threat, 
his assessment of the progress in Iraq can be nothing but reassuring. I 
shudder to think of what would have happened had we listened to the 
naysayers months ago who said we have to withdraw all our troops, even 
before the surge was fully implemented. So far, we have voted 59 times 
on Iraq-related resolutions, most of which are nonbinding sense-of-the-
Senate resolutions; 59 times we have voted even before the surge had a 
chance to be implemented. Now we see what a mistake it is to bet 
against the men and women of the U.S. military. Thank goodness those 
resolutions were not successful, and thank goodness our American 
soldiers, sailors, marines, airmen, and Coast Guard were able to carry 
out this new plan under the leadership of General Petraeus. We now see 
at least some hope in a land where hope was in short supply.

Although many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
prejudged the surge strategy and continue to oppose our efforts in 
Iraq, some of whom call even today for cutting off funds to support our 
troops, we see now substantial evidence of progress. It is my continued 
hope these positive developments may yet change the tone of the 
national dialog on the global war on terror, including the campaign in 
Iraq. It is time for all Members of this body to take an objective look 
not through a political lens, not through a lens which sees only the 
next general election, but to look objectively at what our troops are 
accomplishing in Iraq. Instead of focusing only on the challenges, we 
should at least be honest enough to acknowledge the accomplishments, 
not the least of which are the indisputable gains in security made 
through their sacrifices.

I, for one, am proud to applaud the undeniable achievements of our 
troops in Iraq. Their hard work and tireless dedication have reminded 
us that a stable and peaceful Iraq is within reach. It is my fervent 
hope that my colleagues will join me in acknowledging and honoring the 
successes achieved by our military personnel and renew their support 
for them, their commander, and the counterinsurgency strategy that is 
bearing fruit and to always remember their families at home who wait 
for their loved one to return as soon as our mission is accomplished.

I yield the floor.