# TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES
## `f5db89f0fee3656c0fc2751e2527d886`
`Mr. LEAHY — 11 December 2009`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, Division F of this omnibus conference 
agreement provides funding for the State Department, Foreign 
Operations, and related programs.

I want to thank the ranking member of the subcommittee, Senator 
Gregg, and his very capable staff, Paul Grove and Michele Wymer, for 
once again working with me and my staff in a bipartisan manner to 
produce this conference agreement.

I also want to thank Chairwoman Nita Lowey and Ranking Member Kay 
Granger, and their staffs, for working so cooperatively with us 
throughout this process.

The fiscal year 2010 State Foreign Operations conference agreement 
provides $48.8 billion in discretionary funding, a $3.3 billion 
decrease from the President's budget request of $52 billion.

The bill is $1.2 billion below the fiscal year 2009 level, including 
supplemental funds. This is an important point that needs to be 
understood by all Senators, because yesterday a Senator on the other 
side of the aisle criticized this bill for being 31 percent above 
fiscal year 2009.

That is misleading, because it does not account for the billions of 
dollars in fiscal year 2009 ''emergency'' supplemental funding that was 
the standard way of doing business under the previous administration.

To ignore those costs to American taxpayers is disingenuous. 
President Obama has made clear that he intends to fund these programs 
on budget, not through supplemental gimmicks. That is what the Congress 
urged him to do, and now he is being criticized for doing so.

If you compare apples to apples, this bill provides $1.2 billion less 
spending than in fiscal year 2009.

Some Republican Senators have made speeches against this omnibus 
package on account of earmarks they don't like, even though some of 
them requested their own earmarks. In fact, earmarks comprise a tiny 
fraction of the total package.

Like past years, the State-Foreign Operations conference agreement 
does not contain any earmarks as defined by the Appropriations 
Committee.

We do fund many programs that are priorities of Democrats and 
Republicans, including assistance for countries like Afghanistan, 
Pakistan and Iraq, and longstanding allies like Israel, Egypt, and 
Jordan.

In addition, the conference agreement provides $5.7 billion to combat 
HIV/AIDS, including $750 million for the Global Fund. Funds are 
provided to combat other diseases, like malaria, tuberculosis, and 
neglected tropical diseases,

The agreement provides $1.2 billion for climate change and 
environment programs, including for clean energy programs and to 
protect forests.

The agreement provides $1.2 billion for agriculture and food security 
programs, with authority to provide additional funds.

There are provisions dealing with corruption and human rights, 
funding for international organizations like the United Nations, NATO 
and the International Atomic Energy Agency, and to promote democracy, 
economic development, and the rule of law from Central America to 
Central Asia.

The conference agreement provides the funds to support our embassies 
and diplomats around the world, public diplomacy and broadcasting 
programs, the Peace Corps, and many other programs that promote United 
States interests.

I don't support everything in this omnibus package any more than 
anyone else does. I had hoped, as I know did Chairman Inouye and Vice 
Chairman Cochran, that we could have brought each of the bills in this 
omnibus, including the State-Foreign Operations bill, to the Senate 
floor individually.

But a handful of Senators on the other side have made clear that they 
will do whatever is procedurally possible to slow down or prevent 
consideration of these bills.

Despite that, I can say that the State Foreign Operations conference 
agreement was negotiated with the full participation of both House and 
Senate chairmen and ranking members. It was in every sense a 
collaborative process.

It is a balanced agreement and should be supported by every Senator 
who cares about U.S. security and the security of our allies and 
friends around the world.