---
---

# MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `f5de1a0e6206c3f7ecfbf259a45a215a`
`Mrs. CLINTON — 14 February 2007`

---


Mrs. CLINTON. Mr. President, at this moment of challenge for our 
Nation, the vantage point of this august Chamber, we look onto a world 
filled with danger, deeply complex threats against our troops and our 
national interests abroad, and genuine risks to our security at home. 
Keeping our Nation strong and our people safe requires that we employ 
the best and smartest strategies available.

In confronting enemies and threats we are fortunate to possess a 
great many assets, all of which we must wisely deploy, including our 
military, diplomatic, economic, and cultural assets. Our strongest 
asset remains the democracy that we are privileged to take part in as 
Members of the Senate and as representatives of our constituents. Our 
democratic institutions, under our Constitution, balance one another 
and check against excesses and concentrations of power that help us 
wrestle with difficult challenges in an open and forthright way. This 
constitutional framework is not an obstacle to pursuing our national 
security but the example that we should project to the world. Our 
democracy, with its tradition of accountable power and open debate, is 
America at its best. That is what we need, America at our best, as we 
deliberately and resolutely confront the threat posed by the Iranian 
regime.

Make no mistake, Iran poses a threat to our allies and our interests 
in the region and beyond, including the United States. The Iranian 
President has held a conference denying the Holocaust and has issued 
bellicose statement after bellicose statement calling for Israel and 
the United States to be wiped off the map. His statements are even more 
disturbing and urgent when viewed in the context of the regime's quest 
to acquire nuclear weapons. The regime also uses its influence and 
resources in the region to support terrorist elements that attack 
Israel. Hezbollah's attack on Israel this summer, using Iranian 
weapons, clearly demonstrates Iran's malevolent influence, even beyond 
its borders.

We also have evidence, although it is by no means conclusive, of 
attacks using Iranian-supplied or manufactured weaponry against our own 
American soldiers. As I have long said, and will continue to say, U.S. 
policy must be clear and unequivocal. We cannot, we should not, we must 
not permit Iran to build or acquire nuclear weapons. In dealing with 
this threat, as I have also said for a long time, no option can be 
taken off the table. But America must proceed deliberately and wisely, 
and we must proceed as a unified nation. The smartest and strongest 
policy will be one forged through the institutions of our democracy. 
That is the genius of our American system and our constitutional duty.

We have witnessed these past 6 years, until the most recent election 
of a new Congress by the American people, the cost of congressional 
dereliction of its oversight duty--a vital role entrusted to Congress 
by our constituents and enshrined in and even required by our 
Constitution. So we are here today because the price that has been paid 
in blood and treasure through the rush to war in Iraq and the 
incompetence of its execution and managing the aftermath, in the 
excesses of military contracting abuses and the inadequate supply of 
body armor and armored vehicles on the ground, have led to a loss of 
confidence in this administration among our allies and the American 
people.

Therefore, we cannot and we must not allow recent history to repeat 
itself. We continue to experience the consequences of unchecked 
Presidential action. Sunlight is the best disinfectant but this 
President was allowed, for too long, to commit blunder after blunder 
under cover of darkness provided by an allied Republican Congress.

In dealing with the threats posed by the Iranian regime, which has 
gained its expanding influence in Iraq and the region as a result of 
the administration's policies, President Bush must not be allowed to 
act without the authority and oversight of Congress. It would be a 
mistake of historical proportion if the administration thought that the 
2002 resolution authorizing force against Iraq was a blank check for 
the use of force against Iran without further congressional 
authorization. Nor should the President think that the 2001 resolution 
authorizing force after the terrorist attacks of 9/11 in any way 
authorizes force against Iran.

If the administration believes that any--any--use of force against 
Iran is necessary, the President must come to Congress to seek that 
authority.

I am deeply concerned by the recent statements coming out of the Bush 
administration. The administration has asserted evidence of the Iranian 
regime's complicity at the highest levels for attacks within Iraq. Yet, 
at the same time, GEN Peter Pace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, questions these assertions--in particular, the culpability and 
intentions of the Irani Government. In this delicate situation, while 
making disturbing comments, the administration has also announced it is 
sending a third aircraft carrier to the gulf. The President owes an 
ongoing consultation to this Congress and owes straight talk to the 
country. We have to get this right. The Congress should debate our 
current course, including the current silent-treatment policy toward 
our adversaries.

I believe we can better understand how to deal with an adversary such 
as Iran if we have some direct contact with them. I think that can give 
us valuable information and better leverage to hold over the Iranian 
regime. And if we ever must, with congressional agreement, take drastic 
action, we should make clear to the world that we have exhausted every 
other possibility.

I welcome the agreement announced yesterday between the United States 
and North Korea. It demonstrates the central value of using every tool 
in our arsenal to achieve our objectives. I only wish the 
administration had pursued this course 6 years ago when an agreement 
with North Korea was within reach. The wasted time has allowed North 
Korea to develop nuclear weapons in the interim.

Failure to use diplomacy has damaged our national security interests. 
The important step forward our country has made with North Korea raises 
the obvious question: Why will the President refuse to have any kind of 
process involving Iran, as I and others have urged? The United States 
engaged in talks with North Korea within a multilateral process but 
also had ongoing bilateral discussions. We should have such a process 
of direct engagement with Iran as recommended by many, including the 
Iraq Study Group. We need friends and allies to stand with us in this 
long war against terrorism and extremism and to contain and alter the 
regimes that harbor and support those who would harm us. During the 
Cold War, we spoke to the Soviet Union while thousands of missiles were 
pointed at our cities, while its leaders threatened to bury us, while 
the regime sowed discord and military uprisings and actions against us 
and our allies. That was a smart strategy used by Republican and 
Democratic Presidents alike, even though it was often a difficult one.

As we discuss potential evidence of Iranian complicity in supplying 
arms to insurgents along with the refusal to suspend their nuclear 
ambitions, we need to deliver a strong message to Iran that we will not 
stand by and tolerate this behavior. However, we need


to deliver that message forcefully through direct talks. The lives of 
American soldiers are at risk, and we should not outsource our 
discussions with the Iranians on this and other issues. When I say no 
option should be taken off the table, I include diplomacy.

Currently, our intelligence on Iran is of uncertain quality. We need 
to examine the facts closely and carefully. No action can or should be 
taken without explicit congressional authorization. And knowing what we 
know now, this body needs a steady stream of real, verifiable 
intelligence. We in the Congress cannot do our part in deciding what 
needs to be done if we do not know what is happening, and it does not 
appear that the administration has any real grasp on the facts on the 
ground, even after all these years. The public unclassified sections of 
the NIE recently issued made it very clear in their conclusions that 
sectarian violence would still exist in Iraq absent Iran.

So we have a lot to sort out. We have all learned lessons from the 
conflict in Iraq, and we have to apply those lessons to any allegations 
that are being raised about Iran because what we are hearing has too 
familiar a ring, and we must be on guard that we never again make 
decisions on the basis of intelligence that turns out to be faulty. If 
we find evidence of potential Iranian complicity, we will take 
appropriate action, but that requires a partnership to defend and 
protect America's national security interests between the Congress and 
the President.

Oversight will also lead to a consensus approach that brings together 
the best judgment and strategies of our Nation and will examine the 
consequences of action, the reality of any perceived or alleged threat, 
and the consequences of taking action. I sometimes fear that the word 
''consequence'' has been taken out of the vocabulary of this 
administration. We have to look over the horizon. We have to make hard 
choices among difficult options.

So there are no easy answers to the complex situations we confront in 
the world today. But if we do face threats, the congressional 
consultation and authorization will bring the American people into the 
debate. Whatever steps, if any, may be required should be taken by our 
Nation, not just by our President. We must act as Americans, not as 
members of one party or another. Our Nation has been divided by a 
failed policy and the relentless pursuit of it. We are facing that 
again with the escalation policy the President is pursuing today.

Mr. President, if we face up to our constitutional responsibilities 
as the Congress, if we conduct the oversight that is required, if we 
exercise our checks and balances, then we are likely to reach a better 
conclusion than we have thus far. We must be tough and smart, 
deliberative and wise, and we must look at all of our assets, not just 
the brave men and women who wear the uniform of our country. To 
implement the best policy, we should start by employing our best 
values: the democratic values that give strength to our Nation and our 
cause and that serve as an example and beacon to people who wish to 
live in peace and freedom and prosperity around the world.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.