---
---

# SENATE ACCOMPLISHMENTS
## `f5e1bd8447adfcd1c0a6f0049ee59e31`
`Ms. STABENOW — 13 June 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I would like to thank our majority 
leader for his effort. He read a list in the last few moments that goes 
through quite quickly a whole list of things that have required an 
extraordinary amount of effort to be able to accomplish, and I wish to 
thank him personally.

This has not been an easy 6 months. I think our friends on the other 
side of the aisle have wished to slow things down, with procedural 
motions over and over again, to even go to a bill, and to see the 
leader's patience and determination and perseverance has been 
extraordinary.

I am very proud of the fact, when we compare our first 6 months to 
the 6 months in previous Congresses, that this gentleman has been a 
task master. He has kept his nose to the grindstone and has kept us 
focused on things that matter to the American people, from the war in 
Iraq and bringing that to the forefront, to having hearings where we 
have asked for accountability and attempted to change the direction on 
the war, as well as to things we in Michigan are desperately caring 
about every day, in terms of our economy and our quality of life.

So I wish to thank the leader personally for all he has done and will 
continue to do. I know that with all of us working together, we are 
changing the direction of this Congress and working very hard to 
address the things that people care about every day.
