---
---

# CONSUMER-FIRST ENERGY ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `f5ef6e8fd51bef32530cc1a271dc4b34`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I come to the Senate floor this 
afternoon to speak about the Medicare package we will be voting on 
cloture on, the legislation that Senator Reid filed for cloture 
yesterday. We will be doing that vote sometime tomorrow. Before I make 
my comments about that particular piece of legislation, I want to make 
a few comments in general about the importance of the health care 
agenda and the health care challenge that faces America.

For all of us who are in elected office in all of our States, we hear 
about the pain the people of America are feeling from a number of 
different perspectives. We hear loudly and clearly that people in our 
States are very concerned about what is happening with the runaway 
prices of oil and the high cost of gas and diesel and the farmers and 
ranchers and the businesspeople and consumers in general, just concern 
about that cornerstone of our economy which is causing so much pain to 
the people of America today.

We also hear about another cornerstone of concern, and that is what 
is happening with the housing crisis, the housing crisis which, in many 
ways, has ignited the economic instability we face in America today, 
where people are losing their homes, record foreclosures are occurring, 
and people want to know what it is we are doing in Washington to 
address the dream of home ownership for America.



In my State, it is projected that in the year ahead and in 2009 there 
will be about 50,000 homes that will go into foreclosure. There will be 
about a third of the housing stock that will have a decline of anywhere 
from 12 to 15 percent in value over the next several years. Those two 
cornerstones of our economy--energy and housing--are trembling a little 
bit today. It is important for all of us in the Congress to do what we 
can to try to stabilize our energy policy and energy prices and also to 
deal with the challenges we face in the housing crisis.

There is another cornerstone in our economy which is something we 
need to address. We will do small pieces of it here, but it has to do 
with health care. Health care today is a huge challenge and problem for 
America.

In the Presidential debates, one of the hot topics will be how will 
the next leader of the greatest democracy in the world help us address 
the huge challenges we face in health care. One thinks about the fact 
that there are 47 million Americans who do not have health insurance 
today. One thinks about my State of Colorado with a population of under 
5 million people. Today there are 850,000 Coloradans who don't have 
health insurance, and of those 850,000, 180,000 are children, children 
without health insurance in our State.

As I look at the issue of health care in general, one of the 
cornerstones that face our country in terms of the economic and real 
human pain we are facing, I am proud of the fact that there are people 
in the Senate who are trying to figure out a way forward already.

First, Senator Baucus, chairman of the Finance Committee, has decided 
this is an issue we need to learn a lot more about. So we have a series 
of hearings on what is happening with health care, what is happening 
with health care in other places around the world. Next Monday we will 
be having a health care summit to try to further our understanding on 
how we can deal with this incredibly difficult issue. Then in the mix 
of all that dialog, my good friend from Oregon, Senator Wyden, who just 
happens to be on the floor--totally by coincidence--has offered for all 
of us to take a look at the Healthy Americans Act.

The Healthy Americans Act is important because it is the only piece 
of legislation that has come to the Senate in a manner that is a 
comprehensive health care reform package, but also, importantly, it has 
the kind of bipartisan support which, at the end of the day, will be 
required in order for us to fix the very complex health care problems 
and challenges we face today.

I applaud him and both my Democratic and Republican colleagues who 
have joined him in that effort. It is the only significant bipartisan 
piece of legislation that has been considered in Washington for a long 
time. But the issue of health care and health care reform is not going 
to go away this year. It is an issue I expect will loom large on our 
plates right after the January 2009 inauguration. Many of us will be 
working to try to find the right solution that fits the American 
population. I very much look forward to working with my colleagues on 
that on a bipartisan basis and to working with my good friend, Senator 
Wyden, on that agenda as well.

I wanted to speak about a ticking health care emergency that, if 
unaddressed, will affect millions of doctors and patients across the 
country before the end of the month. In 19 days from today, Medicare 
reimbursement rates are scheduled to drop 10 percent, based on an 
outdated formula that we desperately need to fix. A 10-percent cut to 
Medicare reimbursement rates will force tens of thousands of doctors 
into the red, tens of thousands of doctors across America in every one 
of our States. Millions and millions of Medicare patients will find 
that their doctor simply cannot afford to treat them. Every single 
Member of this body has heard loudly and clearly about the devastating 
effects these cuts will have on patients and on doctors. Here are just 
a few things I have heard over the last several days.

This is from Dr. Mike Wasserman, a Colorado physician who is in a 
group practice that focuses solely on Medicare patients. He said:




 A 10 percent cut is untenable. I would have to seriously 


 consider immediately closing our practice if this were to 


 actually stick.


Other comments that I have received in my office from others:




 Many primary care physicians will not only stop taking new 


 Medicare patients but will consider reducing their current 


 Medicare load. That means more patients being cared for by 


 higher cost specialists. Conceivably, this could actually 


 lead to greater Medicare expenditures.


Finally:




 This cut will have a devastating impact on health care 


 across the board as most commercial insurers and TRICARE tie 


 their rates to Medicare.


Let's keep these realities in mind as we try to forge ahead in the 
next 19 days, and hopefully sooner, to try to fix the Medicare issue 
which faces us today.

The June 30 Medicare cuts will affect military health care plans 
through TRICARE. We will have the rug pulled out from under the feet of 
TRICARE if we don't fix this problem. For me and for the soldiers in 
Colorado at Fort Carson, for the airmen at Schriever, Peterson, and 
Buckley Air Force Bases, and for our Guard and Reserves, I know they 
will find that fewer doctors will see them, their spouses, and 
children. It will be more difficult for returning servicemembers from 
Iraq and Afghanistan to get treatment for PTSD and for wounds they have 
incurred on the battlefield on our behalf.


As the largest purchaser of health services, Medicare rates also 
serve as a starting point for private insurers. This means the impact 
of a cut will eventually be felt by middle-class families as well.

We cannot let this happen. We cannot let Medicare reimbursement rates 
fall on June 30. That is why I am pleased that Senator Baucus and a 
bipartisan group of Senators on the Finance Committee have introduced a 
bill that would correct this problem. I strongly support this bill, the 
Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act. I thank the 
leadership of Majority Leader Reid for giving us the time to bring this 
matter to full debate and conclusion, hopefully, on the Senate floor. 
We have to get this bill done. We have no choice.

In addition to saving doctors and patients from the June 30 Medicare 
cuts, the bill makes several fiscally responsible improvements to 
Medicare and Medicaid, including, first, the bill improves critical 
programs to ensure seniors and individuals with disabilities on a 
restricted income can afford the health care prescriptions they need to 
stay healthy. Second, the bill extends and expands rural health 
programs. Third, the bill expands coverage of preventive services which 
are so needed in health care. Fourth, the bill reduces coinsurance for 
mental health services. Fifth, the bill addresses overpayments and 
unscrupulous marketing tactics in the Medicare Advantage Program. 
Finally, the bill will protect the long-term solvency of the Medicare 
Program.

Curiously, the Medicare bill introduced today by Senator Grassley, my 
good friend and the ranking member on the Finance Committee, mirrors 
many of these provisions. While the differences may not be in number, 
the differences, nonetheless, in my view, require us to move forward 
with the version of the bill Senator Baucus has introduced.