# RECOGNIZING EFFORTS OF WELCOME BACK VETERANS
## `f5f2f13c6ce01d1eaf3bf129ab3db5da`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas â€” 8 December 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I stand before you today in 
support of H. Res. 1746, ''Recognizing and supporting the efforts of 
Welcome Back Veterans to augment the services provided by the 
Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs in providing timely and 
world-class care for veterans and members of the Armed Forces suffering 
from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and related psychiatric 
disorders.''

I would like to begin by thanking my colleague, Representative 
Israel, for introducing this resolution to the House, which encourages 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish innovative public-
private partnerships for the treatment and research of PTSD in teaching 
hospitals across the country. I urge my colleagues to also support this 
resolution, as it honors the fact that those who have fought for our 
Nation should remain a priority.

It is important that we, as a Nation, continue to recognize that our 
great country stands strongly today because of the dedication and 
sacrifice of American veterans. The United States is surely indebted to 
the veterans of every conflict, who have made great sacrifices for 
themselves and their families in defense of our national security. Our 
freedom is intertwined with the sacrifices of our veterans, whose 
devotion to our way of life is unparalleled. I am privileged to stand 
before you today and officially honor their sacrifices and the role 
they play in our Nation.

Every Veterans Day, Americans come together to remember those who 
have served our country around the world in the name of freedom and 
democracy. The debt that we owe to them is immeasurable. Their 
sacrifices and those of their families are freedom's foundation. 
Without the brave efforts of all the soldiers, sailors, airmen, 
marines, and Coast Guardsmen and their families, our country would not 
live so freely.

Deployed soldiers frequently and continually engage in high-intensity 
combat operations, exposing them to potential triggers for PTSD or 
other psychiatric conditions. A 2008 report published by the RAND 
Corporation estimated that one in five Iraq and Afghanistan veterans 
are affected by PTSD. Those with PTSD are at high risk for developing 
other psychological disorders, such as depression.

Furthermore, those suffering with PTSD are more likely to engage in 
self-destructive behaviors, such as alcohol and substance abuse, and 
are six times more likely than persons without PTSD to commit suicide. 
PTSD has been associated with unemployment and a work productivity 
loss, and when left untreated, exacts an enormous toll on individuals, 
families, and society as a whole.

This resolution not only solidifies the importance of Veterans Day, 
but also extends the importance of support for veterans and their 
health and safety throughout the year. In observing Veterans Day, the 
people of the United States must also encourage the education of our 
youth on how those dedicated individuals have contributed to the United 
States' history and today's society. We must continue the tradition of 
honoring those who have served for the greatest causes, freedom, 
democracy, and justice; their commitment to the United States at home 
and abroad should never be forgotten. I am truly proud to rise in 
support of the recognition of Welcome Back Veterans for their 
commitment to taking care of our soldiers.

We recognize and honor the veterans of the Armed Forces not only of 
today, but also of years past, who have sacrificed their lives for our 
great Nation. This resolution reaffirms our country's utmost respect 
and pride for our service people who have contributed to the shaping of 
the United States' history and our current place in the world today. It 
shows the true patriotic spirit that many Americans possess, and their 
willingness to give back to those who have given so much to maintain 
our freedom.

Currently, our Nation has 3 million troops and reservists, and 23 
million veterans, who deserve the greatest respect from their fellow 
citizens. Our Nation has a proud legacy of appreciation and commitment 
maintaining the wellbeing of the men and women who have uniforms in 
defense of this country, and we must ensure that this legacy continues 
in the future.