---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `f5f79160fd482680b8d6d891366e133b`
`Mr. VOINOVICH — 22 January 2007`

---


Mr. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, I rise to introduce The Secure Travel 
and Counterterrorism Partnership Act of 2007, along with my good 
friends Senators Akaka, Lugar, and Mikulski.

This legislation would expand the U.S. Visa Waiver Program in a way 
that would increase cooperation with key allies in the War on Terror 
while strengthening U.S. national security.

The bill provides a way for us to expand and improve the Visa Waiver 
Program so that Americans are safer and our Nation is more prosperous 
for years to come.

This legislation comes at a particularly important time in our 
Nation's history. We are currently facing multiple foreign policy 
challenges in the post-9/11 world. We need the cooperation of several 
allies to combat transnational threats. As such, we are asking our 
friends and allies to contribute more of their troops and resources to 
Iraq, Afghanistan, and other conflicts in the world, so that we can be 
successful. This legislation will help us to solidify key relationships 
and increase goodwill toward the U.S. for years to come, while also 
enhancing travel security standards and safety at home.

My legislation would authorize the Department of Homeland Security, 
in consultation with the Department of State, to expand the Visa Waiver 
Program to countries that are true friends of America and are prepared 
to do more to help us keep terrorists and criminals out of our borders.

For those that do not know about the Visa Waiver Program, it was 
established in 1986 to improve relations with U.S. allies and 
strengthen the U.S. economy. The program permitted nationals from the 
selected countries to enter the United States without a visa for up to 
90 days for tourism or business purposes.

Currently, 27 countries participate in the program, including the 
United Kingdom. No countries have been added to the Visa Waiver Program 
since 1999. But there are a number of newer allies who would also like 
to participate in the Visa Waiver Program and are willing to meet 
strict security requirements and cooperate on counterterrorism 
initiatives.

Many of these countries were former members of the Soviet Union. They 
were victims of Soviet oppression for years, against their will, and 
despite their desire for freedom. These countries have a unique 
understanding of the struggle for democracy taking place in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Today, many of these countries have had boots on the 
ground in Iraq and Afghanistan


and want to help the U.S. combat terrorism and promote democracy.

Despite their commitments to the principles of freedom and democracy, 
these countries are still paying a price that other countries in the 
West do not pay. Citizens of Portugal, the UK, or Spain can travel 
easily to the U.S., while citizens of Poland, Hungary, and Slovakia are 
given second-class treatment.

I recently learned of a story involving a young Czech officer who 
served in Iraq with Americans. This soldier wanted to come to America 
to visit the American friends he made during combat operations. But his 
application for a visa was refused. Why? Because his passport included 
a visit to Iraq, the very place he served with American soldiers.

Many young people from places like Latvia, Estonia, and Bulgaria have 
a positive view of America and hope to visit our country. However, 
their expensive visa applications are frequently rejected, dampening 
their spirits and tainting their image of America. And this view is 
spreading every day.

By limiting legitimate travel to the U.S., we are risking a loss of 
influence with the future leaders of our closest allies.

I have been working for many months to develop legislation that will 
expand the Visa Waiver Program, without sacrificing U.S. security. I 
was pleased last November when I heard President Bush announce his 
intention to work with Congress on this issue. On the margins of the 
NATO Summit in Riga, he called on Congress to expand the Visa Waiver 
Program so that we can reward our closest allies for their help and 
friendship.

I agree with the President--but I want to clarify that visa-free 
travel privileges are not simply a reward for our allies. The true 
reward is the knowledge that we are free and democratic countries 
working together to advance international security. The foremost goal 
of this legislation is to create mutually beneficial partnerships with 
clear national security advantages for the United States.


By continuing on the current path, we risk marginalizing some of our 
closest allies in the War on Terror and losing the hearts and minds of 
their future leaders and citizens. We have an opportunity to change 
direction in a way that will promote our own national security 
interests and improve control of our borders. The Secure Travel and 
Counterterrorism Partnership Act of 2007 can achieve all of these 
objectives.

The legislation would give the executive branch the necessary 
authority to expand visa-free travel privileges for up to five new 
countries, for a probationary period of three years.

In order for a country to participate in the plan, the executive 
branch would first need to certify that the country is cooperative on 
counterterrorism and does not pose a security or law enforcement threat 
to the United States. Prospective countries would also be required to 
take a number of new steps to enhance our common security.

Prior to participation, the countries would be required to conclude 
new agreements with the United States to further strengthen cooperation 
on counterterrorism and improve information-sharing about critical 
security issues.

Some might say--if these countries are key allies, aren't they 
cooperating with us already? The answer is yes. They are very 
cooperative. But in today's heightened security environment, there is 
more that each country can do, such as sharing additional sensitive 
information that can help our intelligence community and law 
enforcement agencies investigate threats and combat terrorist activity. 
By negotiating new agreements on counterterrorism and information-
sharing to permit participation in the Visa Waiver Program, we can 
reduce threats to the United States. Additionally, the legislation 
would require the countries to enact a number of significant security 
measures, which would limit illegal entry and unlawful presence in 
their countries and impede travel by terrorists and transnational 
criminals. Security standards required for participation in the program 
would include electronic passports with biometric information, as well 
as prompt reporting of lost, stolen, or fraudulent travel documents to 
the U.S. and Interpol.

These new requirements would help make the U.S. more secure. 
Expanding the number of participating visa waiver countries would 
increase the number of states meeting common security standards. This 
would allow the United States to shift consular resources used to issue 
visas to other missions with more critical security needs.

If at any time, participant countries are not complying with these 
requirements, their probationary status in the program could be 
revoked.

Likewise, if the program is determined to be successful, it could be 
expanded to include additional countries.

The last part of the legislation is aimed at enhancing security 
requirements for countries who are currently participating in the Visa 
Waiver Program. In this post-9/11 world, the U.S. Government has 
already required additional security measures of participating visa 
waiver countries, such as machine readable passports with biometric 
information. But we can and must do more.

I was very pleased last November when Homeland Security Secretary 
Chertoff recommended several new measures to further enhance the 
efficiency and security of the Visa Waiver Program. His recommendations 
included an electronic travel authorization system, additional 
passenger information exchanges, common standards for airport security 
and baggage screening, cooperation in the air marshal program, and home 
country assistance in repatriation of any traveler who overstays the 
terms of their visa or violates U.S. law.

As the Administration works to develop the details of its 
recommendations, my legislation would require that within one year, the 
executive branch provide a report to Congress on its plans for Visa 
Waiver Program improvements.

In addition to the substantial benefits my legislation would create 
for U.S. foreign relations and homeland security, the bill would also 
advance U.S. economic competitiveness. Visa-free travel to the United 
States has been proven to significantly boost tourism and business, as 
well as airline revenues, and would generate substantial economic 
benefits to the United States well into the future. Additionally, it 
would improve attitudes toward the United States throughout the world, 
which would benefit the U.S. economy and national security for 
generations to come.

As a member of both the Foreign Relations and the Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs Committees, I have studied this issue from 
every angle. I believe the legislation I am introducing presents us 
with a real opportunity to strengthen diplomatic relationships, enhance 
our homeland security, and improve the Visa Waiver Program overall.

I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Congress and the 
President to move this legislation forward.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of this bill be printed in the 
Record.