---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `f5fb3fab56cda4cb1c366f7c03f310f1`
`Mrs. LOWEY — 19 December 2007`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the House 
amendment to H.R. 2764 to highlight the key elements of division J, the 
Department of State, foreign operations, export financing, and related 
programs appropriations act of fiscal year 2008.

This amendment reflects a bipartisan, bicameral process. We worked 
tirelessly with ranking member Wolf, Senator Leahy, and Senator Gregg 
to create a product that addresses our strategic priorities and our 
national security interests, as well as increases assistance for 
programs that promote development, reduce poverty, meet humanitarian 
needs and respond to global health crises.

Despite our bipartisanship, the President's intransigence forced us 
to make difficult cuts to worthy programs. His unwillingness to 
compromise with Congress, while spending $12 billion a month in Iraq, 
is both fiscally and


morally irresponsible. We have worked to limit the damage of this 
President's misplaced priorities, and I appreciate Chairman Obey and 
Speaker Pelosi's commitment to robust foreign assistance.

Division J includes over $5.3 billion for State Department operations 
in the United States and abroad, and exceeds the President's request 
for worldwide security protection to ensure that our diplomats and 
development workers remain safe and secure. It also provides $501 
million for educational and cultural exchanges, and $366 million for 
public diplomacy.



 Promoting National Security Through Support for Strategic Partners


The bill also provides $7.5 billion in economic and military 
assistance for our strategic partners throughout the world, including 
Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Afghanistan, Pakistan, the Philippines, and 
Indonesia among other countries. It fully meets the President's request 
of $2.4 billion for Israel and $1.715 billion for Egypt, excluding the 
0.81% across-the-board cut required to reach agreement with the 
President, and provides assistance to Jordan, including debt relief 
critical to its economic revitalization.



Addressing Global Health and Humanitarian Crises and Promoting Peace


Combating global health threats--including tuberculosis, avian flu, 
HIV/AIDS, and malaria--is a security imperative as well as a moral 
responsibility. We are leading the fight against HIV/AIDS and other 
global health emergencies--providing $6.5 billion, $796 million above 
the President's request and $1.4 billion over fiscal year 2007, to 
address these critical needs. Within the total provided for global 
health, $5 billion is for HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care 
efforts internationally, $544 million above the President's request. We 
have also included, government-wide, $841 million for the Global Fund 
to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria.

I must express my great disappointment that President Bush was 
willing to veto this entire vital bill because it would have allowed 
the U.S. to send contraceptives to poor men and women around the world. 
The President's dogmatic adherence to an illogical position diminishes 
our influence around the world and thwarts one of the most effective 
strategies for stemming the spread of HIV/AIDS and reducing unintended 
pregnancies and abortions. This is a fight we cannot win if our policy 
continues to put ideology ahead of proven results, and I will continue 
fighting to restore common sense to our international family planning 
initiatives.

I am pleased that we were able to provide significant funding to 
promote peace and address humanitarian crises throughout the world. 
Without the across-the-board cut, we would have provided the full 
request for the Peace Corps to support 7,749 volunteers in 67 posts 
serving in 73 countries.

The bill includes over $1 billion to help displaced people around the 
world, especially the growing number of Iraqi refugees. Additionally, 
over $430 million is provided to avert famines, provide life-saving 
assistance during natural disasters, and assist internally displaced 
persons in Iraq, Darfur and elsewhere.

Since declaring the atrocities in Darfur, Sudan, genocide in July, 
2003, this committee has appropriated over a billion dollars to support 
the African Union peacekeeping mission and to provide emergency 
assistance. We are hopeful that the long-overdue United Nations mission 
will finally be able to bring stability to this region, and allow the 
Darfuri people to rebuild their lives. To that end, this bill provides 
over $550 million to support the UN peacekeeping mission in Darfur. We 
have made a strong commitment to international peacekeeping activities, 
and this bill includes $1.6906 billion for ongoing operations in 
Liberia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan, Ethiopia/
Eritrea, Haiti, Timor-Leste, Lebanon, and Kosovo.

I am also pleased that we were able to provide additional funding to 
meet our commitment to provide critical security sector assistance for 
Liberia.









 Investing in Development Around the World


The bill also increases funding for development programs managed by 
the U.S. Agency for International Development. These resources will 
expand our basic education, safe water and environment programs.

Access to basic education has been one of my top priorities for many 
years because it not only improves an individual's chances for a 
better, more productive life, it creates a more tolerant and informed 
citizenry. We have provided a total of $694 million for basic education 
programs in this bill, including $189 million targeted to help 
developing countries with national education plans meet the 
international goal of quality education for all children by 2012.

This bill also provides $510 million for clean energy and 
biodiversity programs worldwide. This includes funding for the Global 
Environment Facility and international conservation programs that work 
with developing nations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, preserve 
national parks, and protect wildlife.

There is also $1.544 billion for the Millennium Challenge Account in 
this bill. While this funding level is lower than that provided by the 
House, it is $344 million above the Senate level, and it will allow the 
MCC to undertake all its planned compacts and threshold programs 
through fiscal year 2008.











Responding to Developing Situations


This bill responds to a number of evolving diplomatic needs 
throughout the world. In addition to providing the strong annual aid 
package to Israel, we must ensure that our assistance to the 
Palestinians supports the current movement toward negotiating a 
peaceful two-state solution between the two parties.

In addition to language on assistance to the Palestinians that has 
been carried in the Foreign Operations bill for many years, we have 
included additional accounting conditions on part of any funding 
provided as cash transfer to the Palestinian Authority. It also ensures 
that no funding goes to Hamas or to salaries of Palestinian Authority 
personnel located in Gaza. It is essential that we track every dollar 
of any cash transfer, and before funding is obligated or expended, I 
expect the Department of State to take the following steps:

(1) Representatives of the government of the United States and the 
Palestinian Authority will develop a list of mutually-agreed 
disbursements. Emphasis will be on funding projects in the West Bank 
that quickly demonstrate quality of life benefits for the population.

(2) The Palestinian Authority may not obligate or expend any funds on 
items not mutually-agreed upon and will repay any funds which are used 
in any way not mutually agreed by the United States and the Palestinian 
Authority.

(3) The Secretary of State shall certify that none of the funds will 
be used to support violence or terrorism. All contractors will be 
investigated through the same United States embassy process that is 
used to vet implementers of United States-administered assistance 
programs.

(4) The Palestinian Authority will establish a separate account to 
hold funds received in the cash transfer. Authorized United States 
officials will have complete and unfettered access to the records of 
this account.

(5) The Department of State will report bi-weekly to the Committees 
on Appropriations on all expenditures, disbursements and balances 
associated with the cash transfer assistance to the Palestinian 
Authority.

(6) The Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations, in classified form if appropriate, on how much funding 
the Arab states are providing to the Palestinian Authority, and steps 
the Palestinian Authority is taking to end incitement.

I look forward to working with the State Department to ensure that 
these funds are fully accountable and used to support President Abbas 
and Prime Minister Fayyad as they work to end corruption and bring 
needed services to the Palestinian people in the West Bank.

Also related to peace in the Middle East, I remain gravely concerned 
about the smuggling operation from Egypt to Gaza, and funds in this 
bill for Egypt are conditioned on steps taken to detect and destroy 
these tunnels.

The developing situation in Pakistan, which continues to be an 
important ally of the United States, also demands action in this bill. 
I appreciate the recent steps towards restoring the constitution and 
advancing democracy and human rights. However, the actions of the past 
few months warranted measures in this bill to end cash transfers and 
condition military assistance on continued progress on political 
reforms. We remain steadfast in our support of the Pakistani people, 
and this assistance package maintains the robust development and 
security assistance that is central to reducing poverty, increasing 
stability, and fighting AI Qaeda, the Taliban, and other terrorist 
groups.

Because our efforts to combat narcotics in Colombia have been 
ineffective for some time, this bill restructures assistance for 
Colombia. We have shifted greater resources to the development and 
interdiction programs. We have also increased funding for rule of law 
and justice efforts in order to strengthen the Government of Colombia's 
ability to combat and demobilize their criminal paramilitary 
organizations that fuel the drug war. It is time for the Colombians to 
take ownership over their eradication and military assistance programs, 
and restructuring of our assistance package reflects that position.












Advancing Our Priorities at Home


In addition to the many steps we have taken in this bill to advance 
international stability and security here at home, this bill also 
addresses many of our most important domestic priorities from education 
funding to worker training to biomedical research to public health 
activities.

It provides relief for families that desperately need child care and 
afterschool programs; for first responders in need of training and 
equipment that will help keep our communities safe; for teachers 
anxious to receive classroom training or professional development; for 
students who won't be able to attend college


without an increase in the maximum Pell Grant; and for the elderly who 
depend on LlHEAP to help pay for the rising cost of home heating oil.

Initiatives funded in this bill literally make a life-or-death 
difference in the lives of countless individuals and families who are 
struggling to make ends meet. While we could have done much more with 
the cooperation of the President, the work that we have accomplished 
together in this final product will help make America more secure and 
will improve the lives of millions throughout the world.

In closing, I would like to thank our staff for their tireless work, 
and their many sleepless nights as they put together this final 
product. Nisha Desai, and her new baby Safya, Craig Higgins, Michele 
Sumilas, Steve Marchese, Lucy Heenan, Celia Alvarado, and our minority 
staff Christine Kojac, Rob Blair and Molly Miller. Lastly, I would like 
to thank Cherith Norman, as she prepares the leave the State 
Department, for her years of outstanding work with this Committee.