# HATE CRIMES LEGISLATION
## `f5fd9b8662e91e85905de1c9a642e3a5`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate being recognized and the 
opportunity and the privilege to come to the floor and address you 
here. It is also a bit nostalgic to step in behind Duncan Hunter. I 
remember many times standing here on the floor of the House debating 
issues, and a lot of them were national security issues, including our 
immigration issues, with Duncan Hunter's father. And this transition 
has been very good to see a young man, a young marine, stand here in 
the well and speak to you and talk to you about our national security 
issues from the experience standpoint of a marine who has served in 
Afghanistan and now one who serves in the United States Congress. I 
very much appreciate the addition to this Congress that he is.

I lament what we have seen happen today, this activity that this 
Congress has gone through; the Department of Defense authorization bill 
that saw at least 144 or so vote against it. Most of those that voted 
against the authorization bill, including me, support, of course, the 
Department of Defense and our national security and all of our men and 
women in uniform and all of our veterans all the way back to many wars 
prior to today. The Department of Defense authorization bill was used 
as a political tool by the left to advance a left-wing agenda that 
should be appalling to the American people if they understand the 
motivation of this idea of inserting hate crimes into the Department of 
Defense authorization bill.

It's a piece of legislation that had passed off the floor of this 
House a piece of stand-alone legislation. Many of us opposed it. It is 
activist legislation that sets up and creates sacred cows, people who 
get special protected status, people who are identified by their 
alleged, hopefully private, sexual behavior or thoughts. This is a bill 
that the United States Senate couldn't figure out apparently how to 
debate on its own and send back over here to the House amended or 
simply send it to the President. So they polluted the Department of 
Defense authorization bill with it.

I would be very happy to yield so much time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from California who I think has an opinion on this matter.