---
---

# HONORING NATIONAL GUARD ON 374TH ANNIVERSARY
## `f5ff17216be8472d6890d6b3c3b0f268`
`Mr. LATTA — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. LATTA. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my House Resolution 1740, a 
resolution honoring the National Guard on their 374th anniversary. And 
as the gentleman alluded to, 374 years long predates this Nation.

The National Guard origins date to December 13, 1636, when the 
General Court of the Massachusetts Bay Colony ordered existing militias 
to be organized into three regiments. Since then, the National Guard 
has fought in every major war and conflict. From the ''shot heard round 
the world'' on April 19, 1775, on Lexington Green and later that day 
that running battle that occurred at Concord Bridge, to the men and 
women who have stood strong and fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq, the 
National Guard and its citizen soldiers have been there for us no 
matter what, always ready, always there.

Going back to that day on April 19, 1775, it was one of these days 
that we have to remember, it was April 18, 1775, that Paul Revere and 
two others left Boston to alert the countryside not that the Red Coats 
were out but that the regulars were out. As Revere Road became known 
later as Battle Road from Boston across to Lexington and Concord, he 
was alerting the countryside, and the countryside was alarmed and the 
people awoke. And those were the early National Guard or the militia 
that responded.

They were the ones that stood up on April 19, 1775, on Lexington 
Green to the command to stand down from the British. No one knows who 
fired that fateful first shot, but that was the beginning of the 
Revolutionary War. And it was the militia--now our National Guard--that 
was there for us and is still there for us today.

The National Guard is the oldest component of the Armed Forces in the 
United States. The National Guard's number one priority is the security 
and defense of our homeland at home and abroad. Americans have relied 
on their National Guard for more than three and a half centuries, long 
before the establishment of these United States.

I want to thank all past and present members of the National Guard 
for their service in response to the attacks on our homeland on 
September 11, 2001, and their continuing role in homeland security and 
military operations.

In today's world, it is essential that we honor and support all of 
our servicemembers who have sacrificed so much to ensure our freedoms 
and liberties that we cherish so dearly in these United States. We need 
to support and provide our men and women in the National Guard and all 
of the Armed Forces with enough resources to ensure their readiness and 
success.

As the National Guard's official song goes, ''Defending Freedom, 
protecting dreams, this is the spirit of what it means to me. For my 
God and my home that I love: I Guard America, Guarding America, 
America.''

I urge passage of the resolution.