---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `f6147538976d2c9443702b4183fd14e7`
`Mr. LEVIN — 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, assuming this budget resolution 
conference report passes today, it will be only the second time in 5 
years that Congress has finalized a budget. The annual budget 
resolution sets forth the necessary blueprint for the Government's 
spending and revenues, and I am pleased that we have an agreement to 
vote on this year. I am also pleased that it is a plan that can help 
put us back on a fiscally responsible path.

For too long now we have been digging deeper and deeper into a ditch 
of debt. President Bush's budget submitted to Congress in February 
would continue that trend by increasing the gross federal debt by 
nearly $3 trillion to $11.5 trillion by 2012. That's $38,000 per 
person. The budget resolution we are considering today can help reverse 
that trend.

The resolution reestablishes a strong pay-go rule, which would 
require any new spending or tax cuts to be paid for elsewhere in the 
budget or receive a supermajority of at least 60 votes in the Senate. 
While I know that balancing our many priorities will not become easier 
under this pay-go regime, I welcome its return. I am also pleased that 
this budget establishes a new 60-vote point of order against long-term 
deficit increases.

This budget also sets a blueprint for going after our country's 
massive $350 billion tax gap, which is the difference between the 
amount of taxes owed by taxpayers and the amount collected. One of the 
primary tax gap areas I hope Congress will focus on this year is the 
offshore tax haven and tax shelter abuses that are undermining the 
integrity of our tax system. I commend Chairman Conrad and the Budget 
Committee members for their willingness to take on and push Congress to 
address these complicated areas. There are many ways Congress can go 
about tackling these problems, and I hope that one of them will be to 
enact the Stop Tax Haven Abuses Act of 2007 that I introduced earlier 
this year with Senators Coleman and Obama. Our bill would crack down on 
a number of the offshore abuses that shift the tax burden onto ordinary 
taxpayers, and would be a big step toward achieving fairness in our tax 
system.

This budget resolution also works toward fairness in our tax system 
by assuming an extension of middle class tax cuts, including extensions 
of marriage penalty relief, the child tax credit and the 10 percent 
bracket. It also assumes a year of alternative minimum tax relief and 
estate tax reform for small businesses and family farms. While the bulk 
of the President's unaffordable tax cuts since 2001 have benefited only 
the wealthiest among us, the tax cuts assumed in this budget are aimed 
at helping working families. I believe they are an important part of 
any economic plan and should be continued.

On the spending side of the ledger, I am pleased that this budget 
resolution supports our men and women in uniform both in the national 
defense program and the additional costs of operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

I am also pleased that this resolution includes the resources needed 
to ensure that our veterans get the health care they deserve. In total, 
the resolution provides more than $43 billion for the Veterans Affairs 
healthcare system--$3.6 billion more than President Bush's budget.

I am also pleased that this budget provides a $50 billion increase 
over 5 years for the Children's Health Insurance Program, SCHIP, to 
expand children's health care and make sure states can maintain current 
caseloads. Making sure children have adequate health care should be one 
of our nation's top priorities. Unfortunately, President Bush's SCHIP 
budget proposal would have lead to the loss of critical coverage in 
many states. The Secretary of the Department of Heath and Human 
Services has even admitted that the intent of the President's proposal 
is to decrease the number of children enrolled in SCHIP. It is 
imperative that we reject that inadequate proposal, and this budget 
resolution does that.

This budget also represents a significant improvement over the 
President's budget for education. For 2008 alone, it provides an 
increase in discretionary funding for the education and training 
function of $9.5 billion above the President's request. That means more 
funds for Pell grants, IDEA, and No Child Left Behind Act than the 
President requested. It would be shameful to fail in our responsibility 
to our children by adopting a spending blueprint that does not provide 
our schools the resources they need.

It is a welcome change to be voting for a budget resolution that can 
change the failed fiscal policies and irresponsible tax cuts pushed by 
this administration. This resolution can help pave the way for 
important investments in America's future to put our country back on 
track and to begin the long process of climbing out of the ditch of 
debt.