---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2009
## `f62726c83d5b2dac43bd768e7b201f12`
`Ms. HARMAN — 14 May 2009`

---


Ms. HARMAN. I thank the gentleman for yielding and tell him we miss 
him on the Homeland Security Committee.

Mr. Speaker, I am keenly aware of the economic hardship faced by 
people in my district and all over the country and the heartfelt 
questions being raised about the costs and policies involved in this 
bill. After careful review, however, I believe the bill is needed, and 
the policies it funds reflect a change in direction from failed Bush 
administration strategies in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and the West 
Bank, all locations I have visited on several trips this past year.

We are ending the combat mission in Iraq, a policy I strongly 
support. We are also embracing a strategy for Afghanistan, which makes 
governance, and not projection of military force, the top priority. 
Mission success there will only come from efforts to eliminate 
corruption and help the central and local governments provide essential 
services to the Afghan people; otherwise, that country will revert to a 
failed state and a safe haven for terrorists intent on attacking the 
United States and our allies.

Pakistan is even more dangerous because of its huge population, a 
military larger than ours, and its nuclear arsenal. This bill funds 
nonmilitary aid and counterinsurgency training to enable Pakistani 
forces to defeat the growing Taliban threat inside their borders.

A promising security program in the West Bank is also supported, a 
key building block to a viable and independent Palestinian state. The 
bill makes explicit that no Palestinian funding will go to Hamas, which 
continues to rearm and threaten Israel.

For the future, as has been discussed, funding for our troops in 
harm's way in missions like these will be on budget and fully debated 
through the regular process in Congress. This is yet another good 
course correction by the Obama administration, and one I have long 
advocated.

This is a sound bill and a sound rule. Vote ''aye'' on both.