# FUTURE INVOLVEMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
## `f63a9f7eca467c6f07243b12cbd83168`
`Mr. PAUL — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. PAUL. Yes, that's right. But it seems like politicians don't lose 
their license. Maybe they should. Maybe there will be more this year or 
something. But the other argument they make is, if you take a less 
militant viewpoint as we all do that we're not supportive of the 
troops. The troops don't believe that. The troops I talk to and the 
ones Mr. Jones talks to, they know we care about them, and they 
shouldn't be put in harm's way unless it is absolutely necessary.

This other argument is, well, we have got to go over there to kill 
them because they want to kill us. Well, like I mentioned before, it 
wasn't the Afghans that came over here, but if we're in their country 
killing them, we're going to create more terrorists. And the more 
people we send, the more terrorists, and the more we have to kill. And 
now it's spreading. That's what I'm worried about in this war.

There was one individual--I don't know his name--but they believed he 
was in Pakistan, so he was part of the terrorist group, the people who 
were opposing the occupation. So they sent 15 cruise missiles, drones, 
over looking for him. It took the 15th one to kill him. But 14 landed, 
and there was an estimate made that about 1,000 civilians were killed 
in this manner. How many more terrorists have we developed under those 
circumstances?

I do want to have 1 minute here to read a quote, and then I will 
yield back. This quote comes from a Russian general talking to 
Gorbachev, and Gorbachev went into office in 1985, and this was a year 
later. The general was talking to Gorbachev. Just think, Gorbachev was 
in office 1 year. He had the problem. He was trying to get out. He 
didn't get out until 1989. But the general says, ''Military actions in 
Afghanistan will soon be 7 years old,'' and told Mr. Gorbachev at a 
November 1986 Politburo session, ''There is no single piece of land in 
this country which has not been occupied by a Soviet soldier. 
Nonetheless, the majority of the territory remains in the hands of 
rebels.'' It reminds me of the conversation between Colonel Tu and 
Sumner after Vietnam. And Sumner, our colonel, says, You know, we 
defeated you in every battle in Vietnam. And Tu looked at him, and he 
said, Yes, I agree, but it was also irrelevant.

I yield back.