---
---

# None
## `f63b490e7218fba466af551af0a441ea`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 18 December 2010`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Thank you, Mr. President.

Mr. President, I come to the floor this afternoon to speak and join 
in the effort to repeal don't ask, don't tell.

This policy has failed in its intended goals. It has done a 
tremendous disservice to the men and women who want nothing more than 
to defend our country, and it is time for this policy to go. I want to 
begin this afternoon by talking about a true hero from my home State of 
Washington named Margaret Witt.

She joined the Air Force in 1987 and served honorably for 18 years as 
a flight nurse--rising to the rank of major. She was described in 
reviews and by her peers as being an exemplary officer, an effective 
leader, and a skilled and caring nurse.

But in 2004 her superiors discovered she was a lesbian and, acting 
under don't ask, don't tell policy they suspended and ultimately 
discharged her. Margaret lost the job she had given her life to, and 
our country lost a talented and committed flight nurse.

She did not give up. She went to court. She called witnesses. She 
made her case. In September of this year, U.S. District Judge Ronald 
Leighton ruled that she must be reinstated. Judge Leighton said the 
government gave no compelling reason for dismissing Major Witt, and 
that the application of don't ask, don't tell was not shown to further 
the government's interest in promoting military readiness.

That was the right decision, and it was amazing news for Major Witt. 
She is now working with disabled veterans in Spokane, WA, but she says 
she is excited to get back in the air and back to helping the troops 
who need her.

Major Witt is a true hero. Her commitment to our country should be 
recognized and honored. But she should never have been put in this 
position. She has the skills, the experience, and the commitment to do 
her job. The fact that she is a lesbian does not change that one bit.

There are so many reasons to repeal don't ask, don't tell and to do 
it now. This policy destroys lives. We have all heard stories like 
Margaret's. There are thousands like it, and for every one we hear 
there are so many more who suffer silently, whose lives and livelihoods 
are devastated--not because of something they did but because of who 
they are: men and women who are kicked out of the military or who are 
forced to lie to everyone they work with, who go to sleep petrified 
they will be found out about and discharged, and who wake up dreading 
another day of mandated deceit and dishonesty.

It is wrong. It needs to end.

Don't ask, don't tell is depriving our armed services of talented men 
and women at a time when we need our best on the front lines defending 
America. We are fighting wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we cannot 
afford to lose critical assets simply because they are gay.

Finally, we also know that repealing don't ask, don't tell will not 
have an adverse impact on the military. We have heard from military 
leaders who support this repeal. The Pentagon recently came out with 
their report that showed that repealing this policy would not inhibit 
their ability to carry out the missions they are charged with.



In fact, that report said 70 percent of servicemembers believe repeal 
would have little to no effect on their units.

Repealing don't ask, don't tell is the right thing to do. It is right 
for our country. It is right for our military. It is right for Major 
Witt and thousands like her. It is right for people like Rebekah. She 
is a young woman from Spokane in my home State. She wrote me a letter a 
couple of months ago and told me she is a senior at Eastern Washington 
University, and her dream for years has been to join the U.S. Army. She 
wrote to me and said:




 I believe the military is an honorable calling. One of 


 self-sacrifice and dedication--and I would be proud to call 


 myself a soldier.


But there was a problem. Rebekah told me the very sense of honor that 
called her to serve her country was preventing her from acting on her 
dream because she told me she is a lesbian. She is very proud of who 
she is. As long as the official policy of the United States Army is to 
ask her to bury that pride, to tell her to keep secret a large part of 
who she is, and to ask her to live what would essentially be a lie, she 
simply will not be able to serve our country.

Rebekah told me that nothing would make her happier than to be able 
to graduate this coming spring and start her journey standing up for 
our Nation. She does not want to feel that she should be ashamed of who 
she is, and she should not have to.

We need to repeal don't ask, don't tell so young women like Rebekah 
will not stop dreaming of growing up to serve our country, and so that 
every man and woman in our Armed Forces can serve their country openly 
and with pride. We have heard the stories of the lives this policy has 
ruined. We have heard from top-ranking military officials that it 
simply does not work. We have heard from servicemembers that they, too, 
want it to change. Today, this afternoon, with this historic vote, this 
country will move a step forward in being proud of every man and woman 
who serves their country.


For far too long, men and women with courage and commitment to serve 
our Nation have been asked to hide the truth about who they are. It is 
shameful. It is a bad policy. Today, it will end.

I look forward to the vote this afternoon and the courage of this 
Senate to stand up and do the right thing today.

Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.