# None
## `f641a50948712e89dc78ff612a1c1521`
`Mr. REID — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, this is not a movie in which we are 
involved. This is a debate on one of the most serious issues this 
country has ever faced. Thousands of Americans have been killed in 
Iraq, tens of thousands have been wounded, and we are depleting the 
National Treasury by more than half a trillion dollars. But my 
distinguished friend's statement clearly indicates what has happened in 
Iraq since we last took up this debate.

We passed the Defense authorization bill last November. We had Iraq 
amendments then. There were no 60-vote margins. But in the last 7 
months since that debate took place, this war has gone in the wrong 
direction--in the wrong direction. That direction is the way that 
President Bush has managed this war. That is why all of a sudden now 
that 7 months has gone by with thousands more Americans being wounded, 
and hundreds and hundreds more being killed, suddenly this is an issue 
that requires 60 votes.

If there were ever a picture, look at what happened last November and 
look what happened today. Of course, they need 60 votes because all 
these amendments would pass with simple majority--all of them, every 
one of them telling the President he should change course. The 
difference is how to tell the President to change course. The Levin-
Reed amendment did it by mandating a timeline.

I am disappointed to see that my friend is leading the Republicans to 
obstruction over progress. I understand the Senate rules. Other than 
this man sitting behind me, I think I know the rules about as well as 
anyone in this Chamber. I understand the Senate rules allow for 
minority filibuster over the will of the majority, but that is not the 
tradition of this bill, and it should not be the path that is chosen 
given the stakes involved.

But because Republicans continue to block votes on important 
amendments to the Defense authorization bill, we can make no further 
progress on Iraq and this bill at this time.

Progress is also blocked by two other troubling realities. First of 
all, more than 300 amendments have been filed. We have not been able to 
get a finite list of amendments for consideration. Majority and 
minority staffs of the Armed Services Committee have been


unable to work in a bipartisan manner to clear large numbers of routine 
amendments due to the objections of one or two Members on the other 
side of the aisle. The chairman and ranking member have been able to 
clear amendments in this fashion for as long as I can remember, but not 
this year, not with this handful of dedicated obstructionists--not all 
but a few.

Seated in this front row is one of the managers of this bill, Senator 
John McCain. John McCain is not known for putting things in managers' 
amendments that shouldn't be in managers' amendments. If there ever was 
a guardian of something in a managers' amendment, it is the senior 
Senator from Arizona. But in spite of that, in spite of his reputation, 
the reality is that no one puts anything in a managers' amendment 
unless this man looks it over--and he is a comanager of this bill--and 
we still haven't been able to clear these managers' amendments.

For these and other reasons, I temporarily laid aside the Defense 
authorization bill and entered a motion to reconsider. But let me be 
clear to all my colleagues, and especially my Republican colleagues, I 
emphasize the word ''temporarily.'' We will do everything in our power 
to change course in Iraq. We will do everything in our power to 
complete consideration of the Defense authorization bill. Why? Because 
we must do both.

I remind my Republican colleagues, even if this bill had passed 
yesterday, even if this bill passed today, its provisions would not 
take effect until next October.

So we will come back to this bill as soon as it is clear that we can 
make real progress. I have spoken with Senator Levin, the manager on 
this side. I have spoken with the assistant leader, the whip, Senator 
Durbin. I have asked them to sit down with their counterparts, Senator 
McCain and Senator Lott, to work on a process to address these 
outstanding issues, especially the managers' amendment, so that the 
Senate can return to it as soon as possible.

In the meantime, we will continue to work with our Republican 
colleagues who are saying the right things--a number of them, a 
significant number of them--on Iraq but aren't yet committed to voting 
in the right way. But we will get there. As Gladstone once said:




 You cannot fight against the future. You cannot fight 


 against the future. Time is on our side.


In this case, time and the American people are also on our side. The 
Levin-Reed amendment would allow us to rebuild our badly overburdened 
military and return our focus to the real security threats posed by al-
Qaida and other terrorist organizations.

I think it is important, Mr. President, that I mention the other 
procedural roadblock that was thrown up trying to do this bill: the 
Webb amendment. What did the Webb amendment do? If you are in country 
15 months, serving in the military, you should be able to stay home for 
15 months. There was a procedural block.

The Levin-Reed amendment would allow us, as I have indicated, to take 
a look at our overburdened military and do something about it and 
return our focus to the real security threats posed by al-Qaida and 
other terrorist organizations. As the new National Intelligence 
Estimate makes very clear, these growing threats demand our attention.

In today's newspaper, and there are other places, but here is only 
one headline: ''Problems Spur Efforts in Protection of Federal 
Buildings.'' The Homeland Security Agency needs more help, is what this 
news story is all about.

President Bush likes to say we must fight the terrorists in Iraq so 
we do not have to fight them at home, but we all know there were no al-
Qaida forces in Iraq prior to the war. And as the President's own 
intelligence experts admit, the war has only stoked the flames of 
terrorists and made us more vulnerable to attack.

These experts concluded in the National Intelligence Estimate that 
the threat to our homeland is growing as al-Qaida has regenerated its 
capacity to launch attacks. While the Bush administration's 
preoccupation with Iraq has prevented us from addressing that threat, 
there is important action the Senate can take and should take.

Therefore, I am going to ask unanimous consent to move to 
consideration of the Homeland Security appropriations bill, chaired by 
two of our most senior Members, Senator Robert Byrd and Senator Thad 
Cochran. This critically important legislation provides $37.6 billion 
for Homeland Security activities. It is more than the President asked, 
$2.3 billion. This bill was reported unanimously by the Senate 
Appropriations Committee--unanimously--and it will give the Senate an 
opportunity to show who is serious about protecting America from 
terrorist attacks.

I would hope that given the urgency of the national security issue, 
as highlighted by the National Intelligence Estimate and the need to 
make progress on appropriations bills, we can move to consideration of 
this most important bill.

The President, in his Saturday address 2 weeks ago this coming 
Saturday, said: Why aren't we doing appropriations bills? Well, we have 
an opportunity to do a very important appropriations bill dealing with 
homeland security. Our security--not dealing with Iraq, not dealing 
with Afghanistan--dealing with our security.
