# None
## `f66fcb2f3df7be830a7b62c056b42f5d`
`Mr. SHULER — 13 January 2009`

---


Mr. SHULER. Madam Speaker, I rise today with a heavy heart to honor 
the memory of LCpl Jessie Adam Cassada of Hendersonville, NC. Cassada, 
only 19 years of age, was killed in combat during Operation Enduring 
Freedom in Afghanistan on the sixth of January, 2009. Lance Corporal 
Cassada gave the ultimate sacrifice to protect our country. He 
demonstrated patriotism and true courage beyond his years.

Since childhood, Jessie Cassada wanted to follow the example set by 
his stepfather and stepbrother to become a Marine. He joined the United 
States Marine Corps after graduating from East Henderson High School in 
2007. He was deployed to Afghanistan from Camp Lejune for a 6- to 7-
month tour of duty in November 2008 with the 3rd Battalion, 8th Marine 
Regiment, 2nd Marine Division. Official accounts said he was supporting 
combat operations in the Helmand province prior to his death.

Cassada's awards include the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, 
the Afghanistan Campaign Medal and the National Defense Service Medal.

He leaves behind his mother, Patricia Cassada, and stepfather, 
Carroll London, as well as two sisters. I offer my sincere condolences 
to them and the rest of his family and friends. They are in my thoughts 
and prayers.

Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in expressing remorse 
at to the passing of LCpl Jessie Cassada, as well as never-ending 
gratitude for the servicemen and women who sacrifice so much to protect 
our Nation and ensure our freedom. The short life of LCpl Jessie 
Cassada serves as an inspiration for us all of true patriotism, 
dedication and courage.
