---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `f67b0a55aa0e1a2a5459ca7c4d99a800`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 16 July 2009`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, today I rise to speak in support of five 
amendments that I have introduced to the bill before us, the National 
Defense Authorization bill for fiscal year 2010. Each amendment focuses 
on improving the benefits and care for the members of our Nation's 
National Guard and Reserve forces so that we can improve military 
readiness and strengthen our efforts to recruit and train quality men 
and women to serve.

I know each of us from our States recognizes the tremendous bravery, 
courage, and the dedication of our National Guard and reservists in 
each of our States. They are part of our community. They certainly, in 
many instances I know of from our seeing the deployments, are people of 
public service, but they are also people who are serving their 
communities. Whether they are firemen or police officers, maybe they 
are school principals, maybe they have small businesses that hire a 
tremendous number of people in those communities, they are hard-working 
Americans who also find time to serve their country. They are 
dedicated, they are brave, and we certainly know the critical role they 
play.

It is a reality that our military is relying increasingly upon our 
reserve components as an operational reserve, not just simply a 
strategic reserve. My amendments reflect that reality by taking needed 
steps to honor the increased service and invest in these men and women 
who give so much on our behalf. When duty called, they stepped up to 
the plate, and now it is time for Congress to do the same.

My first amendment is identical to the Selected Reserve Continuum of 
Care Act I introduced in May. This legislation will ensure that 
periodic health assessments for members of the Guard and Reserve are 
followed by government treatment to correct any medical or dental 
readiness deficiencies that are discovered at those screenings. We know 
we will begin to see these periodic health assessments, because they 
are mandatory beginning in September, and we need to make sure we 
follow up on these.

As an operational force serving frequent deployments overseas, these 
men and women require greater access to health care so they are able to 
achieve the readiness standards demanded by current deployment 
cycles. Far too many men and women are declared nondeployable because 
they have not received the steady medical and dental care they need to 
maintain their readiness.


We have all heard the horror stories of the military simply pulling 
soldiers' teeth and sending them on to Iraq and Afghanistan because 
they don't have the time to provide adequate dental care to bring them 
up to the medical/dental readiness status necessary in order to be 
deployed.

Now that we are going to have mandatory assessment, there is no 
reason we would not want to provide them the medical care they need in 
order to meet that assessment. This is absolutely unacceptable, that we 
would not. And it is inexcusable. Considering the sacrifices we are 
asking them to make on our behalf, the least we can do is provide them 
the care they need to meet the readiness standards we have set. Pulling 
their teeth and rushing them to war is simply not going to get it done.

This practice itself has become so prevalent, we now have a name for 
these men and women. They are called pumpkin soldiers. How absolutely 
awful is that? It is awful that it is such a prevalent practice that it 
has a nickname.

Compounding this challenge is the fact that short-notice deployments 
occur regularly within the Reserve Forces. When men and women are 
declared nondeployable, it can cause disruption in the unit by 
requiring last-minute replacements from other units or requiring 
treatment periods that should be set aside for the predeployment 
preparation and training.

Last year, prior to the second deployment of the Arkansas National 
Guard's 39th Infantry Brigade Combat Team to Iraq, members from 11 
units across our State were pulled to fill out the combat team. Some of 
these cross-leveled members had as little as 2 or 3 three weeks' notice 
prior to their deployment. They were having to fill in because when it 
came time, those who were in those units, the regular Guard and Reserve 
who were there, did not meet the deployable standards, and so 
consequently we had to pull people from all different units at a late 
notice to put them in there while these others met that medical and 
dental readiness.

My amendment would prevent, in large, all of this from happening in 
the future by providing the necessary care at the front end of these 
assessments. Instead of compressing treatment costs into a short 
predeployment period or the bottlenecked medical support unit at the 
mobilization station, my amendment would spread the same costs over a 
longer period, with a more orderly and reliable result.

We are having a huge debate right now on health care reform. One of 
the things we see is that if we can provide prevention or wellness, or 
certainly make sure that medical care gets there when we first detect 
what that medical problem is, the outcome is better and it is usually 
less costly in the overall. The further out from the deployment 
uncorrectable conditions are discovered, the more time a unit will have 
to replace a discharged member and mitigate the effects from that loss. 
So it is not just the well-being of the soldiers we are looking at, it 
is also the well-being of the unit.

We can and should do more to bring our Selected Reserve members into 
a constant state of medical readiness for the benefit of the entire 
force. My amendment does just that. That is why it has been endorsed by 
the Military Coalition, a consortium of nationally prominent uniformed 
services and veterans associations representing over 5.5 million 
members across this country.

I am proud to have worked with Senators Landrieu, Tester, Risch, and 
Byrd on this important legislation and thank them for that support and 
realization of how important, how practical, and how much sense it 
makes for us to use these assessments to quickly provide the medical 
treatment that is necessary to ensure our soldiers, when they do 
receive those orders to be deployed, are meeting the medical and dental 
readiness they need to meet in order to be deployed.

Mr. President, my second amendment calls for an increase in the 
Montgomery GI bill rate for members of the Selected Reserve to keep 
pace with their increased service and the rising costs of higher 
education. I am pleased my friend, Senator Mike Crapo, and I have 
joined in this effort. Mike and I have worked together on so many 
different issues, everything from wildlife to education and certainly 
with our military, representing States that have large rural areas and 
therefore large numbers of Guard and Reserve. It has also been endorsed 
by the Military Coalition as well, the group I mentioned earlier.

This amendment would simply tie education benefit rates for guardsmen 
and reservists to the national average cost of tuition standard that is 
already applied to Active-Duty education benefit rates. We have worked 
hard to try to increase the educational benefit to be commensurate with 
the time these guardsmen and reservists are working on our behalf, who 
are so bravely deploying and working and serving alongside our Active-
Duty military. The problem is, now that we have increased their access 
to a more commensurate educational benefit, the value of that benefit 
is immediately losing value because they depend on the appropriators 
and us to increase that amount. When it is increasing at half the rate 
of the cost of higher education, then they are getting further and 
further behind each year in keeping that commensurate benefit at a rate 
that makes sense and certainly is adequate for their needs in 
education. I believe it is absolutely critical that we do this. It 
builds upon


my Total Force GI bill, first introduced in 2006, which was designed to 
better reflect a comprehensive total force concept that ensures members 
of the Selected Reserve receive the educational benefit more 
commensurate with their increased service. The final provisions of this 
legislation became law last year with the signing of the 21st Century 
GI bill. Now it only makes sense that we would maintain that benefit at 
a rate, again--just at the rate of increase we are seeing in higher 
education. It certainly makes sense for our Guard and Reserve.

My third amendment would lower the travel reimbursement threshold for 
National Guard and Reserve members who are traveling for drills from 
100 miles to 50 miles. Our current high threshold has caused undue 
hardships for members of the Selected Reserve, especially those in 
rural areas who often incur significant expenses because they have to 
travel significant distances. If we cannot ease their burden, I fear we 
are creating significant obstacles to recruiting and retaining men and 
women to serve in the Guard and Reserve--particularly during times of 
economic hardship. We saw the price of gasoline explode last year. We 
know how difficult it is, particularly for many of our Guard and 
Reserve who live in those rural areas. I believe this is a commonsense 
thing we can do on behalf of these brave men and women.

I am so very pleased to be joined here by Senators Tester and Wyden 
in offering this amendment. It was among the recommendations of the 
independent Commission on the National Guard and Reserves. It is 
supported by numerous military and veterans service organizations. It 
only makes sense that we would appropriately provide them the 
reimbursement they need and the travel expenses to get to where they 
need to be for their drills and for their training.

My fourth amendment would enable a valuable program, the National 
Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program, to expand to new cities and new sites 
and reach even more of our young troubled Americans. Currently 
operating in 22 States, the Youth ChalleNGe Program trains and mentors 
youth who have dropped out of high school. It puts them on a path to 
become more productive, employed, and law-abiding citizens.

I recommend to any of my colleagues in this body who have not visited 
a National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program to go and visit. I have 
visited our Youth ChalleNGe Program on more than one occasion and have 
been amazed, both at those who have graduated from that program and 
come back to mentor these other youths--who are disadvantaged, who have 
found themselves in the court system, have been thrown out of school, 
or are certainly in a troubled nature--and amazed at those who are able 
to come into this environment and to feel the security of the military 
and the rules of the military that prompt them into a sense of pride 
and a sense of courage and a sense of accomplishment so they finish 
their education and they go on to do so many great things, so many 
things that otherwise could have turned sour for these youths.

As I said, I encourage any of the Members of this body, if you have 
never visited one of those National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Programs, I 
really encourage you to do so.

For 22 weeks, these young men and women receive more than 200 hours 
of classroom learning designed to prepare them to take the general 
equivalency diploma exam. I attended the graduation of a class in 
Arkansas, and I can attest to the program's positive results.

At a time when we know financial insecurity in our country is shaking 
our families, our youth who are finding themselves in, certainly, 
different circumstances than many of us did growing up, with all kinds 
of temptations and distractions and things that can put them on the 
wrong pathway, here we have an opportunity, when they start out on that 
wrong pathway, to grab them and put them into a program that is going 
to continue to build on the positive things they have to offer and set 
them on a good pathway.

Since the inception of the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program, 
more than 85,000 young men and women have graduated from the program 
nationwide, and they have received their high school degrees. Nearly 80 
percent have gone to college, earned productive jobs, and joined the 
military. Currently, the Department of Defense provides 60 percent of 
the funding, while States are responsible for the remainder. 
Unfortunately, the current cap on funding has restricted many of our 
States from establishing additional programs or building on their 
existing programs.

Along with additional funding, this amendment would help jump-start 
the Youth ChalleNGe Program by fully funding new programs for 2 years 
while they get their feet on the ground. When they better understand 
the tremendous value of this program and, more importantly, how their 
States can begin to invest in a program such as this, it ensures that 
the Federal Government's share is 75 percent into the future instead of 
the current 60 percent that it is right now.

This amendment is endorsed by the National Guard Youth Foundation, 
the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States, 
and the National Guard Association of the United States.

I am so pleased to be joined by Senators Byrd, Casey, Cornyn, Hagan, 
Landrieu, Murkowski, Risch, Rockefeller, Snowe, Udall of Colorado, and 
Wyden in this effort. It is identical to the legislation I have 
previously introduced which has 32 bipartisan cosponsors. It is a great 
move, to help our children, particularly our troubled children and, 
more importantly, it really sends them in the right direction so they 
can become contributing parts of this great Nation. I encourage my 
colleagues to look at this amendment and help us get it passed in this 
very important bill.

Mr. President, you have been incredibly patient. I appreciate that 
patience, having to talk about five different amendments, but these are 
issues that are critically important to me and critically important to 
the people of Arkansas, particularly our Guard and Reserve.

My final amendment is an amendment that would grant full veteran 
status to members of our Nation's Reserve Forces who have 20 or more 
years of service. I am joined in this effort by Senator Hutchison of 
Texas. This amendment is endorsed by the Military Coalition, which is 
the large group, the coalition of military groups.

Under current law, members of Reserve components who have completed 
20 or more years of service are considered military retirees. At the 
age of 60, they are eligible for all the benefits received by Active-
Duty military retirees. Unfortunately, they are denied the full 
standing and honor that comes with the designation of ''veteran'' if 
they have not served a qualifying period of Federal Active Duty other 
than Active-Duty training. As a result, these men and women are 
technically not included in various veterans ceremonies and 
initiatives, such as an effort to have veterans wear their medals on 
Veterans Day or Memorial Day, or in legislation authorizing veterans to 
offer a hand salute during the playing of the national anthem or the 
presentation or posting of the colors.

I don't know about you, but when I am at an event at home in 
Arkansas--or here as well but certainly at home--when I am surrounded 
by my family of Arkansas people and the flag comes down the parade or 
the colors are presented, I support making sure everyone who has stood 
up and said ''I am ready to serve my country when it calls on me'' 
should be given that respect of being noticed as a veteran.

My amendment does not seek to change the legal qualifications for 
access to benefits. Instead, it simply seeks to correct this inequity 
by honoring and recognizing those who have served their country for 20 
years or more, those who have said continually over those 20 years: 
When my Nation needs me, if my Nation needs me, I will be there. I will 
take up my arms. I will do what is asked of me as a member of the 
military forces.

Those men and women wore the same uniform, were subject to the same 
Code of Military Justice, received the same training, and spent 20 or 
more years being liable for callup whenever it did happen. This 
amendment recognizes their long careers of service and would entitle 
them to receive proper recognition as a veteran of the United States of 
America.



I know of few designations that embody such dignity and honor. These 
men and women certainly embody those traits, and it is time we grant 
them the recognition they have earned.

I ask my colleagues to give these efforts thoughtful consideration. 
These five proposals help us keep our promise to these brave men and 
women and will help to strengthen recruitment and retention for our 
National Guard and Reserve and increase their readiness as an operation 
force in the continued defense of this great Nation that we all love 
and are all so very pleased to be a part of.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.