---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `f67e3dfd08e1b1a5520085730ccc3129`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Today, I am making that same suggestion again, and I 
am going one step further. The Senator from Colorado and I are offering 
to our colleagues on both sides of the aisle--and to our country--a way 
to go forward on a bipartisan basis.

I was surprised and disappointed that the President didn't take 
advantage of this opportunity during his State of the Union Address in 
January. He knew then that a majority of Americans didn't support his 
strategy. Fewer do today. He knew then his strategy cannot be long 
sustained without that support. That is still true today.


The President could have invited the distinguished members of the 
Iraq Study Group to sit in the gallery during his speech and, as 
Presidents often do, introduced them, 10 of America's most 
distinguished citizens from the Reagan, Carter, and George H.W. Bush 
administrations, and the U.S. Supreme Court. One of these is now the 
Secretary of Defense. They are ideologically and politically diverse. 
They spent nine months, met nine times, went to Baghdad, interviewed 
171 individuals, and made 79 recommendations. They are all in this 
book. They didn't shy away from the unpleasant facts.

They told us 79 percent of Iraqis have a mostly negative view of U.S. 
involvement in their country. Then they said 2,900 American lives were 
lost, and another 21,000 wounded; $400 billion was spent, with 
estimates as high as $2 trillion for the final cost. They said this is 
not a perfect option, but it is the best option.

The President could have said in January: This isn't my 
recommendation, it is theirs, and I accept it for the good of our 
country, and I ask the American people to accept it.

That is not Presidential weakness, that is Presidential leadership. 
The President's job is not only to see urgent issues and lay out a 
strategy. It is the rest of his job--at least for a sustained military 
strategy--to persuade half of the people he is right. It is not too 
late.

The President has the option before him today, and we are trying to 
make it easier for him. What we are respectfully saying in our 
legislation is, if the President should choose to develop a


way forward based upon the Iraq Study Group's recommendations, we will 
support that plan and we will encourage our colleagues and our country 
to do so on a bipartisan basis, so that Iraq, the Middle East, our 
troops, and the world will know that in the United States we are 
unified in our purpose.

Such a plan will not satisfy everybody. It will not pull out our 
troops tomorrow. It will not get us out of the combat business 
immediately. It won't add 100,000 or 200,000, or 300,000 troops for 
''victory'' in Iraq. It will get us out of the combat business in Iraq 
and into the support, training, and equipping business, in a prompt and 
honorable way. It will reduce the number of forces in Iraq. Because 
there will still be a significant but limited military presence in 
Iraq, it will signal to the rest of the Middle East to stay out of 
Iraq. It will give support to General Petraeus and his troops, who are 
in the midst of a surge. It will expand diplomatic efforts to build 
support for Iraq national reconciliation and sovereignty. It will 
recognize, as Prime Minister Blair said, it is time for the next 
chapter of Iraq's history to be written largely by the Iraqis 
themselves.

As a Republican Senator, my message with respect to the President is 
that I hope he and the White House seriously consider this.

We are not introducing this bill today. It will be introduced in 2 or 
3 weeks. Then, we hope other Senators will support it. I hope the 
President will embrace it. There is plenty within this report that 
gives him the opportunity to continue our mission in Iraq. The 
difference is that this is not the President's report, and that is its 
advantage. It has a better chance of success, in terms of developing 
bipartisan support here and in our country.

Finally, there are some issues that are simply too big for one party 
to solve. Iraq is, as the Senator from Colorado has said, the foremost 
among these.

Here we are, the oldest democracy, lecturing Baghdad, an infant 
democracy, for not coming up with a political solution, when we 
ourselves cannot come up with one.

Until we do come up with one, we should spend less time lecturing 
Baghdad and more time working together to fashion a way forward on the 
foremost issue facing our country. Coming together in support of the 
plan based upon the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group offers that 
best opportunity. We invite our colleagues to join us.
















 Exhibit 1


President Bush Should Take the Iraq Study Group Report Down Off the 
















 Shelf




 My purpose today is to say that it is time for President 


 Bush to take the Iraq Study Group report down off the shelf 


 and use it for something other than a bookend.



 There is a reason why we don't have 535 commanders-in-chief 


 or 100 commanding generals each saying charge down this 


 street or over that hill.



 The founders of our country made the President Commander-


 in-Chief and gave to Congress the power to declare war and to 


 pay for it.



 That is why I will vote against any of the resolutions that 


 seek to micromanage this war. Once a war is authorized, as 


 this one was by a bi-partisan vote of 77-23 in 2002, it is 


 the president's job to manage the war.



 As an example of why we don't need 535 Members of Congress 


 micromanaging this war, consider this: since last January, 


 the new Democratic majority has offered 17 different bills 


 and resolutions outlining what to do in Iraq. Undoubtedly 


 there will be more in the coming weeks.



 And I am not about to cut off funds for General Petraeus' 


 troops in the middle of the current military exercise, which 


 congress clearly does have the power to do but should not do.



 I do have the responsibility as a United States Senator, to 


 say what I believe is the right way forward for our country 


 in Iraq, and my belief is this: the President would be wise 


 to take down off the shelf the recommendations of the 


 bipartisan Baker-Hamilton Iraq Study Group, to develop a 


 strategy based upon those recommendations, and to ask 


 Americans to accept that strategy as the way forward in Iraq.



 The President would have been wise to do this in January 


 during his State of the Union address. The country was then 


 looking for a new way forward in Iraq. The Iraq Study Group, 


 after nine months of careful, bipartisan work, offered such a 


 plan.



 Instead, the day after the report was announced in 


 December, some who wanted another 100,000 or 200,000 troops 


 to ''win the war'' said the report was a ''recipe for 


 defeat.''



 On the other side, those who wanted the U.S. out of Iraq 


 immediately dismissed the report as more of the same.



 So the report was put on the shelf. Not much was heard 


 about it.



 That is, until lately.



 Lately, the President's national security adviser has cited 


 the Baker-Hamilton report as authority for the surge of 


 troops in Baghdad which, in fact, on page 73, the report did 


 say might be necessary.



 Over the weekend, the United States participated in 


 meetings with Syria and Iran, perhaps the most controversial 


 recommendation in the report.



 Now, the timetable and strategy for reducing U.S. combat 


 strength in Iraq contained in the newest Democratic senate 


 resolution sounds very much like the Iraq Study Group report, 


 calling for combat troops to be largely withdrawn from Iraq 


 by March of next year. But the Iraq Study Group specifically 


 opposed setting timetables or deadlines for withdrawal, 


 noting that its recommendation should be ''subject to 


 unexpected developments on the ground.''



 At the same time, like one of the Republican-sponsored 


 resolutions, the Iraq Study Group recommended that the U.S. 


 work closely with Iraq's leaders to support the achievement 


 of specific ''milestones'' on national reconciliation, 


 security, and governance.



 In short, if there is any bipartisan consensus emerging 


 about how the United States should go forward in Iraq, the 


 best blueprint of that consensus can be found in the Iraq 


 Study Group report.



 The membership and process of the Iraq Study Group is as 


 important as the substance of what it said. It included 10 of 


 America's most distinguished citizens from the Reagan and 


 Carter and George H.W. Bush administrations, from the 


 Congress and from the Supreme Court. One of its former 


 members is now the Secretary of Defense. On its face, it was 


 ideologically as well as politically diverse. The group spent 


 nine months, met nine times, including a trip to Baghdad, and 


 interviewed 171 individuals in the U.S. and in Iraq. Its 


 report is comprehensive, with 79 specific recommendations.



 Its assessment of the ''dire'' current conditions in Iraq 


 is honest and sobering. It did not shy away from reporting 


 unpleasant facts--that 79 percent of Iraqis have a mostly 


 negative view of the influence that the United States has in 


 their country, that 2,900 (at that time) Americans had lost 


 their lives and another 21,000 wounded, that we have spent 


 roughly $400 billion on the Iraq war and that estimates run 


 as high as $2 trillion for the final cost. The group 


 acknowledged that its recommendations were not perfect 


 options but seemed to be the best options.



 As much as America needs a new strategy in Iraq, we also 


 need a consensus in support of that strategy. To put it 


 bluntly, a majority of the American people do not now have 


 confidence in the President's course in Iraq. The Iraq Study 


 Group offered the President an opportunity to say, ''Okay, 


 here is a different approach suggested by a bipartisan group 


 of distinguished Americans. It is not my strategy. It is 


 theirs. I accept it and, for the good of our country and the 


 armed forces fighting for us, I ask you to accept it.''



 Such a statement would not exhibit presidential weakness. 


 This would be presidential leadership--recognizing that the 


 president's job is not only to choose the right strategy but 


 to successfully persuade at least half the people he is 


 right.



 The president still has this option before him.



 He would be wise to exercise it today--this week. Come back 


 to Congress. Report on the last few weeks' progress in Iraq. 


 Invite the Iraq Study Group members to sit in the gallery. 


 Compliment their work. Accept their recommendations. Ask the 


 Congress and the country also to accept their 


 recommendations.



 This course will not satisfy those who want 100,000 more 


 troops for victory in Iraq.



 Neither will it satisfy those who want all troops out on a 


 specific timetable.



 But it will get U.S. troops quickly out of the combat 


 business in Iraq, and into the support business.



 It will reduce the number of American forces in Iraq over 


 the next year.



 It will leave American special forces in Iraq to go after 


 al Qaeda and troops to help guard the borders.



 Because there will still be a limited U.S. military 


 presence, it will send a signal to the rest of the Middle 


 East to stay out of Iraq.



 It will give support to General Petraeus and his troops who 


 are in the midst of a surge to make Baghdad safer.



 It will expand diplomatic efforts to build support for 


 Iraqi national reconciliation and sovereignty, including with 


 Iraq's neighbors.



 And it will begin to recognize that America has done most 


 of what it can do to help Iraq. As Prime Minister Blair has 


 said, it is time for the next chapters in Iraq's history to 


 be written by the Iraqis themselves.



 Finally, this course will recognize that while the United 


 States can and should be a shining example of democracy and 


 does have the mightiest military force in the world, that a 


 conservative view of human nature and our own national 


 interest places limits on what we can do to make it possible 


 for others to adopt our democracy and our way of life.
