---
---

# RECOGNIZING TILSON TECHONOLOGY MANAGEMENT
## `f680015087a1b966bd01b099a546c8cf`
`Ms. SNOWE — 18 November 2010`

---

 Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, it is essential that today's small 
businesses be flexible and responsive when it comes to changing demands 
and conditions if they wish to be successful and truly distinguish 
themselves. My home State of Maine boasts a number of these highly 
innovative companies, which are poised to lead our economic recovery in 
the coming years. I rise today to recognize one of these firms, Tilson 
Technology Management, a small independent information technology 
project management company based in Portland, which is helping 
businesses grow through the creative and comprehensive training it 
offers its customers.

Mike Dow founded Tilson Technology Management in 1996 with the goal 
of improving the day-to-day operations of construction companies 
through the unique technology consulting training it offers to its 
clients. Tilson quickly met this goal and, adjusting to the needs of a 
variety of other industries, set its sights on providing technology 
solutions to businesses on a broader, global scale. As such, Tilson 
expanded its expertise, offering its critical technology services to a 
wider range of markets, including the biotechnology, banking, and 
manufacturing industries. All the while, Tilson has maintained its 
reputation as a leading example of solid and principled business 
management.

At its core, Tilson is a company of solutions, helping businesses 
meet their customers' needs while also helping to improve Maine's high-
tech infrastructure. As a result of the company's hard work and 
determined success, Tilson was recognized this year with the Governor's 
Award for Technology Company of the Year. This honor is bestowed 
annually on a business that takes great pains to ensure that Maine is a 
cutting-edge technology State.

The company's work to find solutions to everyday technology problems 
is never-ending. In Maine, this includes constructing 1,100 miles of 
fiber optic cable that will expand the reach of broadband and the 
countless opportunities that will come as a result. I look forward to 
the completion of this project and the doors it will open for the 
citizens of Maine and local industries seeking a wider, global reach. 
At the same time, Tilson is helping to improve the lives of Americans 
abroad. The company is taking on the crucial task of developing ways to 
furnish U.S. troops with the food and supplies they need while serving 
our country in Iraq and Afghanistan.

A member of such organizations as the Portland Regional Chamber of


Commerce, the Maine International Trade Center, and Maine's Software 
and Information Technology Industry Association, Tilson has been a 
driving force in the vitality of Maine's business community. On a daily 
basis, this impressive company makes the lives of the people of my home 
State easier by helping businesses better serve their customers. There 
are no bounds to what the future holds for Tilson and its remarkable 
innovations that are helping Maine become a more competitive and global 
State. I thank Mike Dow and everyone at Tilson Technology Management 
for making their company an outstanding example of a successful 
business, and I offer them best wishes for continued growth.
