---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `f6802677973f37ccdccb4ff2a825effb`
`Mr. ROSS — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Indiana, a fellow 
Blue Dog Member, Mr. Donnelly, for his insight, and invite him to 
continue to stay with us for the remaining 15 minutes or so we have got 
here this Tuesday evening on the House floor to talk about 
accountability, on how your tax money, some $12 million an hour of your 
tax money being spent to Iraq is being spent.

You can see the cost of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Starting in 2001-
2002, $2.5 billion; $51 billion in 2003; $77.3 billion in 2004; $87.3 
billion in 2005; $100.4 billion in 2006; and $60 billion in 2007. That 
was before the supplemental that we passed about a week ago which was 
about $100 billion. So we are actually up to about $160 billion for 
2007, which brings this number not to nearly $400 billion, but to now 
nearly $500 billion, nearly half a trillion dollars.

Now, I promised to show a few of the examples of the waste, fraud and 
abuse of taxpayer dollars that was detailed in the report from Iraq.

Number one, of 150 primary healthcare centers that were originally 
planned to be built, only 15 have been completed. Of those 15, only 
eight are currently open to the public. In addition, eight primary 
healthcare centers have stopped work altogether.

Number two: The U.S. Agency for International Development Office of 
Transition Initiatives was supported by $350 million to focus on 
democracy building, human rights, civic programs and investigations of 
crimes against humanity. However, USAID could not determine whether the 
intended outputs of the 4,789 grants under this contract were even 
accomplished because of ''insufficient documentation.''

Number three: The report also found water damage in one healthcare 
facility that caused bathroom floor tiles to break and ceilings in 
lower floors to leak and collapse, increasing the health risk to 
patients.

Number four: A shortage of sinks and toilets combined with 
workmanship deficiencies, inferior materials and insufficient 
maintenance, caused significant deterioration to the barracks at one 
military base, a facility which cost our government $119.5 million.

The report also details construction and equipment installation at 
the Iraq Civil Defense Headquarters that did not comply with the 
international standards required by the contract and task order. This 
particular project cost the Federal Government, our government, our tax 
money, Mr. Speaker, some $3 million. We will come back to this in a 
little bit.

Number six: At the Baghdad International Airport, an enhancement 
project costing the Federal Government $11.8 million required the 
installation of 17 new generator sets. However, when the airport was 
recently inspected, 10 of the 17 generator sets were not even 
operational.

And the list goes on and on. We will come back to it.

Mr. Speaker, at this time I yield back to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Murphy).