---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f686c17e79822e59c4f874c292e4f232`
`Mr. SESTAK — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Mr. Speaker, as this essential debate begins today, I am 
quite honored to be asked to make opening remarks at its beginning.

I served in our military for over three decades, entering during the 
Vietnam War and serving under Presidents Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan, 
Bush, Clinton, and our Commander in Chief today, President Bush. I had 
the honor of leading men and women in harm's way, the highest honor 
that our Nation can give to anyone; most recently in combat, over at 
Afghanistan and Iraq, where I commanded an aircraft carrier battle 
group of 30 ships and 15,000 sailors and marines.

Having worn the cloth of this Nation so long, I know that duty of 
choice, that the citizens of this great country have about the future 
course of this war in Iraq is not an unpatriotic one, nor is what 
anyone will say in the next few days unpatriotic.

If my 31 years in the military taught me anything, it was that we 
serve in this all-volunteer military to defend Americans' freedom to 
think as they please and to say what they think, even if they disagree 
with their leaders. A democracy is based on freedom of expression, and 
those who join the military do so to fight, if necessary, the wars 
which defend that freedom, hoping that our use will be to a wise end. 
And that is what concerns me about Iraq.

The continuing use of our national treasure in what is an 
inconclusive, open-ended involvement within a country with long-term 
benefits does not match what we need to reap. It is why I am opposed to 
a troop surge that doubles down on a bad military debt that has been 
tried already.

We need to apply our resources elsewhere in the world, where 
terrorists come from, including Osama bin Laden who is still on the 
loose, or emerging nations such as in the Western Pacific have growing 
political and economic interests and, therefore, influence that may 
challenge ours.

I do not think that my extensive military experience alone gives me 
license to disagree with our strategy in Iraq, but just being an 
American who has closely watched and thought about the trade-off and 
benefits for our future prosperity, interest, and values does.

Our military is a national treasure that should not be used 
recklessly, nor should it be hoarded like miser's gold. It is a vital 
resource if we are to continue to be a force for peace and prosperity, 
but throughout the world. And that is why I firmly believe in a planned 
end to our military engagement in Iraq within the next year as the 
primary catalyst for change in Iraq so their leaders are forced to 
accept the political and military responsibility for their country, 
with our diplomatic and economic help, and limited military support 
from outside Iraq, but within the region is best. It is for our 
Nation's greater security that I believe this, and why I cannot support 
a troop surge that strains our military readiness further and, more, 
our overall strategic security in a war that does not serve our 
Nation's greater interest in this world and our future.