# None
## `f68af65f48e841c45deaf2d9c3320086`
`Mr. SOUDER — 9 October 2007`

---


Mr. SOUDER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

There are probably no things more upsetting to Members of Congress 
than to know that the difficult decisions we have made here have 
resulted in the deaths of young men and women in battle.

Lance Corporal David Fribley was actually the first Hoosier killed in 
action in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. One of the good things 
that we have seen in the Oversight and Government Reform Committee has 
been a number of post offices and various things being named after 
these young patriots.

I was earlier at a dedication of a football field in Warsaw, Indiana, 
named Fribley Field, where the community went together and put together 
a statue and a number of things in tribute for him and his family and 
renamed the


field and redid the field so that kids could continue to play athletics 
as he did in Warsaw.

He is actually from Atwood. His parents are Gary and Linda. He has a 
brother, Steve, and a sister, Ann.

Atwood is a very small town, not that Warsaw is all that big, in the 
big scheme of things, but Atwood is a very small town, similar to the 
one I grew up in, probably about 500 people or thereabouts, between 500 
and 1,000, at most. It is on U.S. 30. Many people may go by it. Be 
careful if you do, there is usually often a policeman there who tries 
to catch people in a speed trap. The town is just a little ways away.

But this is a big moment for Atwood. One of their stars that came out 
went to Warsaw High School; and even though he went to Warsaw High 
School, he was known as an Atwood boy. Warsaw is a large consolidated 
high school in the area, and all the small towns know their individuals 
there.

Vicky Romine, the postmaster in Atwood, requested this from our 
office and said, because he was an Atwood boy, they wanted to name 
their post office after him. The three county commissioners in 
Kosciusko County, Brad Jackson, Ronald Truex and Bob Conley, all sent 
letters of support to rename this post office after Lance Corporal 
David Fribley.

He graduated from high school in 1996, where he was an all-conference 
football player and a track and field star. He was on the track and 
field team at Indiana State from 1996 to 1998 and placed sixth in the 
shot put at the 1998 Missouri Valley Conference Indoor and Outdoor 
Championships. He went on to graduate with a bachelor's degree in 
recreational-business administration from Indiana State University.

After college he moved to Fort Myers, Florida, where he began 
organizing activities for retirees at the Shell Point Retirement 
Community until September 11, 2001. Right after 9/11, he joined the 
Marine Corps, saying, ''The greatest gift one can give another is the 
gift of service. The following is my gift to you and others. With all 
the strength of my fellow marines, we shall always provide you with the 
comforting feeling of safety that you have each day.''

He was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 2nd Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine 
Expeditionary Brigade, Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. In 2003, he was 
deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. On March 23, 2003, he 
died during a battle near Nasiriyah. He became the first Hoosier killed 
in action in support of Iraqi Operation Freedom.

Corporal Fribley was always ready to pitch in, friends and family 
say. When an uncle took sick, he mowed his aunt's lawn. When a cousin 
wanted to attend Indiana State, he took her to the sprawling campus, 
showed her shortcuts and introduced her around.

One of his fraternity brothers at Indiana State said: ''David was one 
of those simple, gentle people. You could ask him to do anything, and 
he would stop what he was doing and help you. He was one of those 
people that I trusted with everything. I could go to him with a 
problem. I could go to him with an issue, and he would always come 
through.''

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.