# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `f69d56657f177fe3a2b82432926ae4a5`
`Mr. WEBB â€” 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. WEBB. Madam President, I want to take a few minutes today to 
speak about the state of paralysis we seem to have found ourselves in 
on the Senate floor, and then also to make a brief comment about two 
nominations the Senate will be considering.

First, we are paralyzed, obviously. The other side of the aisle has 
voted against a windfall profits measure for oil companies at a time 
when we have seen record profits for any company in American history, 
which has only increased. How did they get these profits? Certainly not 
by working any harder. In fact, as people have mentioned on the floor 
today, it seems a lot of production actually has gone down. I don't 
know how else you define a windfall than what has happened in the price 
of oil and the profits that have gone to the oil companies over the 
past 6 or 7 years. They will not give us a vote on the rampant 
speculation that has now taken place in the oil market.

I have to say at the outset that I don't have a fundamental 
disagreement with a lot of the things that are being said on the 
Republican side about what we need to do. I think we very much need a 
comprehensive energy strategy in this country. I am not opposed, 
personally, to the idea of expanding exploration for oil and gas in 
those cases where it is appropriate, and to get down and find the 
assets that are available to us as a nation and increase our national 
security. This may not be, as some people say, the answer in the 
distant future, but it is certainly an essential transition for us as 
we reach toward that future.

I personally support nuclear power and expanding nuclear power 
programs. We have not built a new nuclear power plant in more than 30 
years. There has been ample comment about that on the floor. I think 
nuclear power is safe. We are the best in the world at it. The 
experiences of the U.S. Navy at sea for at least a half century 
demonstrate that. It is environmentally clean, and we have gotten 
better technology, advanced technology, in terms of taking care of 
nuclear waste.

I believe we can reach a point where we have cleaner coal. This 
requires new technology. We are the Saudi Arabia of coal. We are 
looking to improve national security, and we are looking for 
independence from countries where we have seen an enormous transfer of 
wealth from the United States. This transfer of wealth is going to 
result in better infrastructure for these other countries, and it is 
going to harm us in the long-term.

I believe we need to support conservation and alternative energy 
programs of every sort. I went to high school in Nebraska. If you draw 
a line from Canada to northern Texas, where the winds come down from 
the Arctic Circle, you will see there is not a mountain in the way. 
There are actually trees in Oklahoma that bend toward the south because 
of the power of those winds. I believe we must invest, in terms of 
alternative energy technologies, whether it is wind, solar, or other 
areas.

At the same time, when do we debate this? How do we develop a 
strategy? What should we be doing now, today, looking into the 
immediate future? The bill our leadership brought to the Senate floor 
is the best short-term fix, when we are talking about the incredible 
increase in the price of oil. If you go back 6 years to when this 
Congress voted in favor of the invasion of Iraq, oil was $24 a barrel. 
The price of oil went all the way up to $147 a barrel. It has tamped 
down a little since then, but that is a sixfold increase in 6 years.

I can guarantee this is not simply a supply-and-demand issue. The 
demand didn't go up six times in the last 6 years. There are other 
interests, including the speculation market, that have driven the price 
of oil up that high. We have had testimony from oil companies' 
executives saying that, in a pure supply-and-demand environment, oil 
would probably be at $60 a barrel. That is an issue we can affect. We 
can affect it in the short term by regulating a market that has 
dramatically changed because of the participants in that market since 
late 2000. I hope we can have some sort of agreement on this. We should 
have a vote on the speculation issue. I compliment our leadership for 
having attempted to bring that issue before the Senate.















Pending Nominations


Madam President, I want to speak for a couple of minutes about two 
nominations that are pending before the Senate.

First, I express my appreciation to the senior Senator from Virginia, 
Senator Warner, today for the comments he made about Kathy Stephens, 
who has been nominated to be Ambassador to South Korea, has cleared the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and has been waiting for a vote on 
this floor. I know of very few people who have better qualifications to 
serve in that part of the world. I have spent a good part of my life in 
and out of Asia. She began as a Peace Corps worker in South Korea. She 
is fluent in Korean. I believe she is the best qualified person to


address all of the issues that people on both sides have expressed 
their concerns about, in terms of politics, the culture, human rights 
issues, et cetera. I was very gratified to see Senator Warner mention 
his support for her nomination today. I hope we can find a way to get 
her out there doing her job in the very near future.

The second nomination I want to mention is that, regrettably, I am 
unable to support the nomination for the Chief of Staff of the Air 
Force. This is an individual who, in an earlier billet, at a key time 
after the invasion of Iraq, was asked repeatedly to give answers to a 
question for which I personally believe there were answers. I was 
writing about it at the time. I have very strong feelings about this. 
Regrettably, I am going to be unable to support that nomination.

I go back to what General Matthew Ridgway said some 50 years ago, 
when he was describing the role of a military adviser. He said:




 He should give his competent professional advice on the 


 military aspects of the problems referred to him, based on 


 his fearless, honest, objective estimate of the national 


 interest, and regardless of administration policy at any 


 particular time. He should confine his advice to the 


 essentially military aspects.


I believe if we do not insist on this standard in the relationships 
between the U.S. military and the Congress, then we are going to 
continue to have the same difficulties that we saw with attempting to 
get straight comment out of the U.S. military as we went into Iraq.

There was a very wise Marine general who said, at the time I was 
entering the Marine Corps, ''It is very important in the United States 
to get the politics out of the military and to keep the military out of 
politics.'' I believe that, if we believe in that, we need to insist 
that those military officers who testify before the Congress abide by 
it.

With that, I yield the floor.