# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `f6acdeed7e583c06f904f943bdfd0050`
`Mr. CARPER — 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. Madam President, I want to mention today the death of a 
Delawarean--our 15th Delawarean--whose life has been lost in Iraq. She 
was the first female whose life has been lost in Iraq and whose funeral 
I attended a week or two ago. I want to reflect on the life and service 
of Air Force SrA Elizabeth Loncki.

She was the first female Delawarean to be killed in the line of duty 
in Iraq. As a bomb disposal technician, Elizabeth performed one of the 
most dangerous tasks assigned to Armed Forces personnel. She routinely 
put herself in harm's way with the hope and knowledge that her actions 
would save the lives of others. I daresay they have saved the lives of 
hundreds of other people. The steel nerve and extreme bravery required 
to locate and disarm explosive devices are not traits too many people 
possess, including us. Only the bravest of our soldiers and military 
personnel carry out this responsibility, and her ability to perform and 
carry out this difficult work speaks volumes about her character and 
sense of duty to her colleagues, comrades, our country, and to the 
Iraqi people.

Elizabeth epitomized the best of our country's brave men and women 
who fought to free Iraq and to secure a new democracy in the Middle 
East. She exhibited unwavering courage, dutiful service to her country, 
and above all else, honor. In the way she lived her life--and how we 
remember her--Elizabeth reminds each of us just how good we can be.

Elizabeth was only 23 years old but her competitive spirit and kind-
hearted ways touched the lives of all that knew her. She was blessed 
with a wonderful family--younger sister, Olivia, loving parents, 
stepparents, grandparents, great-grandparents and many aunts, uncles, 
and cousins--and countless numbers of friends and comrades.

She was also loved by SGT Jayson Johnson, who was stationed with 
Elizabeth at Hill Air Force Base in Utah. They had recently purchased a 
house together and Jayson had made plans to visit Elizabeth's father to 
seek his permission to ask for Elizabeth's hand in marriage. The 
sadness of his loss cannot be overstated.

Elizabeth was a 2001 graduate of Padua Academy in Wilmington. She was 
a natural athlete with a competitive spirit and she excelled at 
volleyball, basketball and softball. She briefly attended the 
University of Arizona before enlisting in the Air Force in March of 
2003. On February 24, 2004, she graduated from Eglin AFB-Naval Tech 
Explosive Ordinance Disposal School. She was proud of her training and 
gladly told inquiring strangers that the ''Bomb Squad'' sweatshirt she 
often wore was indeed the real thing.

Elizabeth volunteered to go to Iraq before she was officially called 
and was deployed on September 27, 2006. Her grandfather recalled her 
saying, ''If I saved one life, it was worth it.'' An Air Force official 
told the Loncki family that each day her team went out, they probably 
saved scores of lives. She will always be remembered as a hero who put 
the safety of others before herself.

On January 7, 2007, Elizabeth made the ultimate sacrifice near Al 
Mahmudiyah, Iraq, when a car bomb her team was working on exploded 
while they were trying to disarm it. TSgt Timothy Weiner of Tamarac, 
FL, and SrA Daniel B. Miller, Jr., of Galesburg, IL also gave their 
lives while trying to save others on that fateful day. All three were 
members of the 775th Civil Engineer Squadron at Hill Air Force Base.

Elizabeth was one of the few women who dared to serve as a bomb 
disposal technician. Her family recently shared a story from a sergeant 
major who had helped train Elizabeth. I think this goes to the heart of 
the person she was and what she believed in. I'd like to share a bit of 
that. He said, ''Elizabeth was an ultimate troop. I am an old Special 
Forces guy and have been through a lot of action. I have served in 
three wars. I had the privilege of being in Elizabeth's company. She 
was involved in extreme combat training and the highest danger. She 
saved a lot--I repeat--a lot of lives. . . Bar none, she was one of the 
finest people I have ever trained. I have two boys in the military and 
have lost troops under my command in the Special Forces and I have 
never worked with a finer person.''

On January 13, 2007, I attended Senior Airman Loncki's funeral at St. 
Peter the Apostle Church in New Castle where Elizabeth had been an 
active member.

Following the service, Elizabeth was laid to rest with full military 
honors in


the Delaware Veterans Memorial Cemetery. The outpouring of love and 
support from the many people who gathered for her burial serve as a 
testament to the positive impact that Elizabeth had on all of those who 
were blessed to know her.

For her service, Airman Loncki received numerous recognitions during 
her Air Force career: Air Force Training Ribbon, Global War on 
Terrorism Service Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, National Defense Service 
Medal, Air Force Good Conduct Medal, and the Air Force Outstanding Unit 
Award. The Purple Heart and the Bronze Star with Valor Device were 
awarded posthumously on January 9, 2007.

As I listened to Elizabeth's friends and family speak about the type 
of person she was, I couldn't help but think about the heavy toll that 
this conflict has taken on our country. Elizabeth had originally 
planned for a career in the Air Force but she had begun to express 
doubts about our role in Iraq. She told her grandmother that the people 
of Iraq ''don't want us over there'' and had asked her father, ''if 
people don't want us to help, what do we do?''

If I could talk to Elizabeth, I would tell her that she epitomized 
what is best in this world. I would tell her that if the day ever comes 
when the Iraqi people decide to put aside their hatred and come 
together as a nation--and that day cannot come soon enough--it will be 
the heroic actions of people like her that made this possible.

Next week in this Chamber I believe we are going to debate a 
resolution, and the resolution is about what course we should take in 
Iraq. I think the President and those who don't share his proposal for 
a surge of our troops share the same goal. The goal is this: How do we 
convince the Iraqi people to take charge of their lives? How do we 
convince them to assume responsibility for their country? How do we and 
others help to convince them to find a way to share power, share the 
wealth of their country, and to stop killing each other?

The President believes the best way to do it is to send more troops 
to Baghdad and to other parts of the country. Those of us who disagree, 
including some of the President's own military leaders with whom I met 
in Iraq last year, think that maybe the best way to convince them to 
make the tough choices in Iraq is to make it clear that we are not 
there forever, that this is not an engagement without an end in sight, 
and that we have expectations for them to stand and deliver for their 
own country.

I close simply by saying that sometimes we think these debates are 
just debates that we have in our Nation's Capitol, and there is a 
country on the other side of the world, with people we don't know, who 
are doing things we, frankly, don't understand. But it is also 
important for us to remember people such as Elizabeth Loncki who are 
willing to risk it all to try to help them, and our obligation is to do 
our dead level best to make sure they and we get to the right place.

I yield the floor.