# RECOGNIZING 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF UNITED STATES-JAPAN TREATY OF MUTUAL  COOPERATION AND SECURITY
## `f6b501be1b520d0ddf532900475deaea`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN â€” 23 June 2010`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I rise in support of this resolution recognizing the mutual benefits 
for the United States and Japan of a treaty which went into effect 
exactly 50 years ago today. The Asia Pacific region was a dangerous 
neighborhood a half a century ago. The United States and our allies had 
just fought the first hot battles of the Cold War on the Korean 
peninsula. Tensions were high in the Taiwan Strait, and the war in 
Vietnam was just then emerging on the horizon.

A half century later, Asia, while now the prosperous trading hub of 
the world, is still dangerous. One need only look to the recent 
torpedoing of a South Korean naval vessel by a reckless North Korea to 
recognize that the Asia Pacific region is not yet truly pacific.

Through all the perils in the Pacific, the United States-Japan Treaty 
of Mutual Cooperation and Security has stood as a cornerstone of a 
continued regional peace and prosperity. None of this would be possible 
without the contribution of the people of Japan, and especially those 
on Okinawa, through their continued hosting of our proud U.S. Armed 
Forces.

The smooth transition from bitter adversaries to full partners is a 
tribute to the resiliency and the farsightedness of two peoples on 
opposite sides of the Pacific: the people of the United States and the 
people of Japan. The recent reaffirmation of the commitment to full 
implementation of the 2006 Roadmap and the Guam International Agreement 
for realignment of U.S. Armed Forces in Japan is a concrete step 
forward in cementing this crucial alliance.

The mutual cooperation promised in the treaty 50 years ago, however, 
extends far beyond the Japanese islands. When the U.S. looked for 
partners in dealing with the aftermath of the devastating earthquake in 
Haiti earlier this year, Japan's Self-Defense Forces were there working 
with their American counterparts.

On the critical issue of the stabilization of the volatile situation 
in South Asia, Japan has been a generous contributor in economic 
assistance to both Afghanistan and Pakistan. And Japan has been a 
stalwart ally in our U.S. efforts to end the proliferation of nuclear 
weapons and missile technology by the reckless regime in Pyongyang.

Both within the United Nations and during the Six-Party process in 
Beijing, Japan has stood shoulder-to-shoulder with its American ally in 
opposing continued North Korean nuclear brinksmanship. North Korean 
threats and aggression continue. We should immediately re-list North 
Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism. This is both because of 
Pyongyang's past abductions of Japanese citizens and because of North 
Korea's continued links to terrorist groups like Hezbollah and Hamas. 
There is no greater signal that this administration can send to the 
Japanese people in this treaty anniversary year than acting 
expeditiously to hold North Korea fully accountable for such terrorist 
activities.

I join in the anticipation expressed in this resolution of another 50 
years of unshakable friendship and deepening cooperation with the 
people of Japan.