# None
## `f6b94197e88566483dd5a11bc99d175d`
`Mr. DURBIN — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, in the next day or two, the House and 
Senate will consider the Iraq supplemental appropriations bill. This is 
the fifth year of our war in Iraq. This is the seventh time the 
President has come to Congress for an emergency supplemental bill.

In the ordinary course of events, a President and administration will 
submit to Congress an appropriation. We carefully review it, consider 
amendments, vote on it, and send it back to the President for 
signature.

The exceptions to the rule I just gave are for emergency situations, 
unanticipated situations, such as natural disasters, situations that 
came upon us so quickly that we could not have anticipated them. But 
for 5 straight years now this administration has insisted that this 
ongoing war is an unanticipated expenditure. I wish that were true, but 
we have known now for more than 4 years that this war is costly; first, 
in terms of human life, and, second, in terms of the Treasury of this 
country. Despite that, the President continues to send us emergency 
bills, unanticipated appropriations.

This time, almost $100 billion is to be added to the expenses of the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The total cost to date is somewhere in 
the range of $500 billion. We have appropriated that money. We have 
given the President every penny he has asked for and more. Members of 
Congress and the Senate with serious misgivings about this policy in 
Iraq have said to the President as Commander in Chief responsible for 
our men and women in uniform: We never want to shortchange them in 
battle. We want them to be safe. We want them to come home safe.

I was one of 23 Senators who voted against this invasion of Iraq. I 
thought this was a serious mistake from the start, but I have never 
said no to the President's request for the funds for those troops. As I 
have said often, and I will repeat now, if it were my son or daughter 
in uniform, I would want them to have everything they need to come 
home. I may think this is the worst foreign policy decision in our 
time, but it is not to be taken out on our troops. They shouldn't be 
the bargaining chip in this important debate which is going on in 
Washington.

Now comes the President with another supplemental, about $100 billion 
that he wants for the troops to have in the months to come. He will 
receive that money. There is no doubt that he will receive it. The 
Democratic majority in the House and Senate has already pledged to 
provide all the money our troops need. But we cannot ignore the 
obvious. It is time for us to have a serious discussion in this country 
about this war.

The day before yesterday, nine American lives were given up in Iraq. 
Nine soldiers and marines lost their lives while many of us were in the 
safety of our homes or at our workplace.

Whether it is on Sunday with the Stephanopoulos show or every day in 
the Washington Post, I try to make a point of reading the names and 
ages and hometowns of these soldiers, marines, sailors, and airmen who 
are casualties. I do that because I don't want their loss to become a 
numbing statistic. I want to try to visualize that 19-year-old soldier, 
that 23-year-old sergeant, that corporal in the Marine Corps who was 20 
years old. I want to try to visualize them in terms of my family and 
the people I love. I think every Member of Congress needs to do the 
same thing--and I hope they do the same thing--to remember that it 
isn't just 3,320 lives, these are 3,320 sons and daughters and husbands 
and fathers, mothers and wives, loved ones. These are real people and 
real lives.

So now we are in this debate about how this war is going to end. It 
is well overdue that we have this debate.

When we went into this war, we were told by the President that there 
were reasons for doing it. I think most Americans recall it. I recall 
the litany very well.

First, the administration told us that Saddam Hussein and Iraq had 
weapons of mass destruction which could be used--chemical and 
biological weapons--in a terrorist mode to kill innocent people in the 
Middle East and around the world.

Second, we were told they were developing nuclear weapons in Iraq, 
nuclear weapons that could destabilize the Middle East and even attack 
America. The leaders in this administration were giving speeches about 
mushroom clouds from these nuclear weapons.

Then we were told that Saddam Hussein had some connection to the al-
Qaida terrorists who caused the 9/11 tragedy in America.

Then we were told that this madman, this dictator, was so ruthless 
that he even killed and gassed his own innocent civilians, his own 
people in Kurdish regions.

The Senate came to debate this, listening to the speeches by 
President Bush, Vice President Cheney, Secretary Rumsfeld, Secretary 
Colin Powell, and Condoleezza Rice, and the debate engaged. At the time 
of this debate, I was a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee. I 
would read the headlines in the paper in the morning and watch the 
television newscasts and shake my head because, you see, just a few 
hundred feet away from here in a closed room, carefully guarded, the 
Intelligence Committee was meeting on a daily basis for top-secret 
briefings about the information we were receiving, and the information 
we had in the Intelligence Committee was not the same information being 
given to the American people. I couldn't believe it. Members of this 
administration were in active, heated debate over whether aluminum 
tubes really meant that the Iraqis were developing nuclear weapons. 
Some in the administration were saying, of course, not, it is not the 
same kind of aluminum tube; at the same time, members of the 
administration were telling the American people to be fearful of 
mushroom-shaped clouds.

I was angry about it. Frankly, I couldn't do much about it because, 
in the Intelligence Committee, we are sworn to secrecy. We can't walk 
outside the door and say the statement made yesterday by the White 
House is in direct contradiction to classified information that is 
being given to this Congress. We can't do that. We couldn't make those 
statements. So in my frustration, I sat on the floor of the Senate and 
listened to this heated debate about invading Iraq thinking the 
American people are being misled, they are not being told the truth. 
That is why I joined 22 of my colleagues in voting no. I didn't believe 
at the time that the American people knew the real facts.

So what happened? We invaded, turned loose hundreds, if not thousands 
of people scouring Iraq for these weapons of mass destruction and never 
found one of them. We looked for nuclear weapons. There was no evidence 
whatsoever. We went into our intelligence files and said: OK, Saddam 
Hussein and al-Qaida--let's get this linkage put together once and for 
all. There was no evidence at all of a linkage.

The American people were deceived into this war. That doesn't take a 
thing away from the men and women in uniform who answered the call. 
They stand and fight. They don't make the policy. The policy is made in 
Washington. And they have shown extraordinary courage.

Now, in this supplemental appropriations bill for Iraq, we want to 
engage the White House and the American people in an active discussion 
about where this war is going. I don't want to wake up every single day 
and read a headline about 5 more Americans, 9 more Americans, 10 more 
Americans losing their lives in the middle of a civil war. We are 
saying to the President: It is time for you to accept the reality of 
the situation, and the reality is, as good as our military is--and it 
is the best in the world--it cannot win a civil war in Iraq. This war 
dates back 14 centuries. Two sects of the Islamic religion in pitched 
battle for 1,400 years about who


is the legitimate heir of the great Prophet Muhammad, and our soldiers 
are in the middle of this fight? Is that what we bargained for? Had the 
President come to us and said: We want to send in 150,000 American 
soldiers to risk their lives in the hopes that these two warring 
religious sects will reach an agreement in Iraq, he wouldn't have had 
two votes in favor of that. But that is where we are today.


Meanwhile, this Iraqi Government, a Government which we have had a 
great deal to do with creating, continues to fail us.

The supplemental appropriation we will send to the President of the 
United States starts talking about bringing American troops home, not 
all at once, not immediate, not a hasty withdrawal that would be 
dangerous for everyone, but in a systematic way. Many of us believe 
that is the only way to convince the Iraqis to stand up and take 
responsibility for their own country, to make the important and tough 
political decisions for their own future. Unless and until we do that, 
I am afraid we will continue to see the casualties grow and we won't 
see the stability we seek.

This congressional action which we are sending to the President with 
this supplemental appropriation is not about really sending a message 
to the President, unfortunately. He is not listening. We know he has 
ignored his generals, and they are lined up to say the policy and 
strategy in Iraq is not succeeding. He has ignored the American people, 
who overwhelmingly believe it is time for American soldiers to start 
coming home. And he has refused to accept the realities of this war.

Sadly, this administration is the architect of the worst foreign 
policy decision in recent memory. The President has led the best 
military in the world into a desperate civil war. He has spent American 
treasure at a record rate, driving us deeply into debt, and, 
unfortunately, there is no end in sight.

The poor judgment of this administration has led to the invasion of 
Iraq, which has cost us over 3,300 American lives, over 25,000 injured, 
as many as 10,000 seriously injured with amputations and traumatic 
brain injury. His failed leadership has sent too few soldiers into too 
many battles without the training, the equipment, and the rest they 
need. And now he is extending the tours of duty of these men and women. 
I can't imagine that family back home marking the days off the 
calendar, reading the e-mails in anticipation of dad coming home, being 
told: You have to stay 90 days longer.

Do you know, Mr. President, that this extension of the tour of duty 
for National Guard members is the largest extension since World War II? 
We are pushing these men and women to the limit. We are asking more of 
them than has been asked in 40 or 50 years. It is obvious that this 
administration had no idea at the time of this invasion of the extreme 
cost of ending this war, and frankly, they still don't.

This failed policy in Iraq may not change until this President has 
left the White House, but that doesn't mean congressional action and 
congressional debate are any less important. If President Bush is not 
listening, then we trust that the Iraqis will listen. They should know 
this Congress will continue to work to make one thing very clear: 
American troops are coming home. The Iraqis have to stand up for their 
own country.

I commend to my colleagues and all those who follow this debate an 
article from the New York Times of April 4 this year, just a few weeks 
ago, written by Leon Panetta, a former colleague of mine in the House 
of Representatives--a great personal friend, I might add, a man who has 
served this Government at the congressional level and then again in the 
Clinton White House and most recently was a member of the Iraq Study 
Group.

What he basically says in this article of April 4 is, What about 
those other Iraq deadlines? What he does is he goes through and lists 
all of the deadlines the Iraqis agreed they would live by, the things 
they said they would achieve. As you go through them, you can 
understand the frustration many of us have about the current situation.

The Iraqis promised to achieve by the end of 2006 or early 2007 the 
approval of a provincial election law. So far, no progress on that.

The approval of a law to regulate their oil industry and share 
revenues--a very hot political topic, and while the Council of 
Ministers in Iraq has approved a draft, it has yet to be approved by 
their Parliament.

They agreed by the end of 2006 or early this year to approve the 
debaathification law, to reintegrate officials of the former regime and 
Arab nationalists into public life. No progress at all.

They agreed to approve a law to rein in sectarian militias. No 
progress at all.

By March, the Government promised to hold a referendum on 
constitutional amendments. No progress at all.

By May, the Prime Minister of Iraq committed to putting in place the 
law controlling militias. No progress at all. The approval of an 
amnesty agreement--no progress at all. The completion of all 
reconciliation efforts--clearly no progress.

By June, the Iraqi Government promised to hold provincial elections. 
No date has been set.

By April, the Iraqis want to take over total control of the Iraqi 
Army. Not likely based on the current situation.

By September, the Iraqis want to be given full civil control of all 
the provinces. Today, they control 3 out of the 18 provinces.

By December, the Iraqis, with U.S. support, want to achieve total 
security self-reliance. It is too early to tell, but does anyone 
believe that will occur?

What Leon Panetta spelled out here is promises by Iraqis; that if we 
continue to risk American lives, if we continue to spend $8 billion to 
$10 billion a month, they will tackle the tough political issues in 
their country, and time and time again they have failed. How long will 
we wait? How many American lives will we offer up while they twiddle 
their thumbs thinking about political possibilities?

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
the April 4 op-ed by Leon Panetta.