---
---

# PRICE OF GASOLINE
## `f6bc46b943633cb8cbc34ef94cfce05a`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. First of all, Mr. Perlmutter is right, oil has 
made us vulnerable in foreign policy. A big reason we are in Iraq 
clearly is related to oil. I think we have to be much straighter with 
the American people than Congress has been.

We are doing two things here. One, with this legislation, the price 
gouging legislation, we are providing basic protection against rip-
offs, and that is just the fundamental responsibility that people's 
government has is to make sure that the people with a lot of money, 
corporate power, don't use that power to rip them off. That is one.

Second, we have to develop an energy policy. An energy policy, as has 
been said, is going to give us a lot more freedom in foreign policy, 
not create these enormous pressures to get involved in wars that we 
shouldn't be involved in.

Secondly, it is obviously good for the environment.

Third, as the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Braley) has been saying, it is 
good for the economy. The legislation we have to pass is not just on 
protecting the consumer, it is about creating a projobs, pro-high-tech, 
progrowth approach to addressing in a straightforward, confident way 
the energy challenge that we face.

One of the small bills that I have sponsored and you are a cosponsor 
of, Mr. Perlmutter, and I am soliciting more, is to make our offices 
carbon neutral here in Washington. When I got here, I was concerned 
about global warming. I checked into how much carbon pollution did I 
create just by turning my lights on here in Washington and Vermont, 
flying back and forth to my district, and then driving around. It is 
quite staggering: 754 tons. That is a lot just to show up for work.

I tried to find out how to offset that. Change the light bulbs, turn 
the thermometer so you don't use as much air conditioning or heat, and 
then invest in renewable energy that would allow a farm in southern 
Vermont to do a digester, a methane digester, which adds to the bottom 
line of farms, and all of our farms are struggling to make ends meet. 
We have to keep our farms in production and have local production of 
agriculture for the ag economy, but also for a way of life that a lot 
of folks in Vermont and Iowa want to maintain.