---
---

# CONCERN ABOUT FARHAD ALIYEV AND HUMAN RIGHTS IN AZERBAIJAN
## `f6bf7013b82bbc86804c79637767b5bb`
`Mr. ACKERMAN — 30 March 2007`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. Madam Speaker, I would like to call the House's 
attention to an important human rights case in Azerbaijan. Mr. Farhad 
Aliyev, the former minister of economic development and a leading pro-
West reformer, has been arrested and charged with planning a coup, 
though I think his true crime was speaking truth to power in 
Azerbaijan. Too often, the United States has allowed immediate 
interests to blind us to the long-term risks associated with ignoring 
or downplaying significant human rights violations abroad. There is 
enormous potential in U.S.-Azeri relations, and I want to see this 
relationship continue to blossom. But we risk implanting a fatal flaw 
in this development if we are not frank about our concerns about human 
rights and the rule of law.

I submit a March 17, 2007, article from the Washington Times, ''Ex-
Azeri official held for 17 months'', by Jason Motlagh, detailing Mr. 
Aliyev's case for the Congressional Record with my remarks.








 [From the Washington Times, Mar. 17, 2007]










Ex-Azeri Official Held for 17 Months














 (By Jason Motlagh)




 Baku, Azerbaijan.--The view from Sabina Aliyeva's balcony 


 commands the skyline of this reborn boomtown and the Caspian 


 Sea beyond, but for the past 17 months one stark gray 


 building off to the right has loomed large.



 Inside, her husband, Farhad Aliyev, the former minister of 


 economic development and a leading pro-West reformer, remains 


 locked in solitary confinement, charged with planning a 


 coup--though no evidence of it has been put before a court of 


 law.



 International human rights groups and U.S. lawmakers say 


 Mr. Aliyev is a political prisoner whose rights have been 


 violated as he awaits due process. According to Azeri law, a 


 judge must hear his case by April or release him from 


 pretrial detention.



 The high-profile case comes amid efforts by the Bush 


 administration to secure closer ties with the oil-rich 


 nation, considered to be of increasing importance in a 


 sensitive region. Critics counter that better bilateral 


 relations must be in step with U.S. demands for democratic 


 reform, and not allow a convenient foreign policy to obscure 


 a grim human rights record.



 Azerbaijan is a secular Muslim country on the western shore 


 of the Caspian Sea, wedged among Iran, Armenia, Russia and 


 Georgia. U.S. officials have stressed its value as a reliable 


 energy supplier, citing continued Azeri oil and natural-gas 


 deliveries to Europe as a counterweight to Russia's state-


 owned energy giant Gazprom.



 President Ilham Aliyev--no relation to the accused--has 


 also been a willing partner on security issues. One of the 


 first foreign leaders to contribute troops to missions in 


 Iraq and Afghanistan, he granted U.S. pilots overflight 


 rights in Azeri airspace, and the Pentagon is sponsoring an 


 upgrade of a former




 Soviet airfield for potential use by American forces.



 Some observers also point to the sizable and at times 


 restive Azeri minority in Iran as a potential tool if a 


 conflict with the United States or its allies broke out. 


 Azerbaijan insists it will have no part in any military 


 action against the Islamic republic.



 Azerbaijan has a reputation of being heavy-handed toward 


 its citizens. Before its November 2005 parliamentary 


 elections, condemned by international observers as flawed, 


 riot police reportedly beat up protesters in the streets and 


 arrested hundreds.



 Farhad Aliyev, his younger brother Rafig, former head of 


 the leading Azeri oil refiner, Azpetrol, and a handful of 


 other officials were summarily arrested on charges of 


 plotting a coup.



 The vote itself was marred by irregularities, ballot 


 stuffing and intimidation, according to the Organization for 


 Security and Cooperation in Europe.



 Still, President Aliyev was invited to the White House last 


 April. Washington justified his first meeting with President 


 Bush on the basis that his regime is in a different class 


 than autocracies like those in Belarus and Uzbekistan, thus 


 should be engaged rather than left to gravitate toward Moscow 


 or Tehran.



 Opponents say corruption and ongoing crackdowns on civil 


 freedoms could have a destabilizing effect in Azerbaijan. 


 They say Farhad Aliyev challenged the political establishment 


 to make free-market reforms, to better integrate with the 


 West, and is now being denied U.S. support.



 ''We're defending Farhad Aliyev because we defend the ideas 


 he represents,'' said Murad Saddadinov, an Azeri human rights 


 activist and former political prisoner. ''If we do not 


 support him, we will soon lose everybody like him in 


 Azerbaijan.''



 Mr. Saddadinov said he fears the emergence of a more 


 radical brand of Islam if democratization does not take hold, 


 noting the growing attendance at Wahhabi mosques in the 


 capital. One Western official said he saw ''the potential,'' 


 but doubted such an outcome in the foreseeable future.



 Appointed by President Ilham Aliyev's father, post-Soviet 


 strongman Heydar Aliyev, who died in 2003 at a U.S. hospital, 


 Farhad Aliyev led a broad campaign to open the economy and 


 reduce the power of state-affiliated monopolists that had 


 long controlled the flow of imports and exports in 


 Azerbaijan.



 One of Farhad Aliyev's top priorities was an overhaul of 


 the state customs committee, considered by the Azeri public 


 and business community as a corruption machine. Azerbaijan 


 ranked 130th among 163 countries in Transparency 


 International's latest corruption index.



 ''Corruption is endemic in this country . . . [and the 


 customs] department has been at the top of the list,'' said a 


 European official working in Azerbaijan who deals directly 


 with the government on reform matters.



 Farhad Aliyev ''was generally regarded as a fair and good 


 businessman, even among a disillusioned Azeri public. The 


 West rightfully saw him as someone to work with--someone with 


 a promising political future.''



 An intense rivalry soon developed between Farhad Aliyev and 


 customs chief Kamaleddin Heydarov, whom Mr. Aliyev accused of 


 stifling economic growth by making it hard for new business--


 foreign or domestic--to enter Azerbaijan's markets.



 Both men used the press to try to win over the public and 


 President Aliyev. Azeri news reports agree that state 


 interference was reduced in entrepreneurial activities and 


 certain meddlesome agencies were abolished.



 Ali, 23, a university student who asked that his full name 


 not be made public, said Farhad Aliyev was well liked at a 


 time most Azeris had tuned out politics.



 ''He came across as someone who actually cared about people 


 and change, not his bank account,'' said Ali. ''His 


 popularity was definitely growing . . . and is probably why 


 he was removed.''



 Farhad Aliyev went out on a limb when he said that as far 


 as Azerbaijan's social and economic development are 


 concerned, ''Russia is Azerbaijan's past, the West is its 


 future.''



 On Oct. 19, 2005, weeks after he had told the prosecutor 


 general's office that unspecified criminal groups had 


 threatened to kill him, he was arrested for conspiring to 


 overthrow the government. A corruption charge was later 


 added.



 Officials accused Farhad Aliyev of paying supporters of 


 Rasul Guliyev, the exiled chairman of a major opposition 


 party, to stir unrest upon his return from the United States 


 to run in the elections. The charge was based on the 


 confession of ousted Finance Minister Fikrat Yusifov, a 


 reputed co-conspirator, who was released two months later.



 Mr. Guliyev has categorically denied the claim or that he 


 ever met Farhad Aliyev. Analysts queried in the capital 


 agreed that such an association was highly unlikely, given 


 their opposing party affiliations.



 Charles Both, an American lawyer who represents Farhad 


 Aliyev and his brother, says that since their arrest, the 


 original charges have not been declared in court; no evidence 


 in support of the charges has been offered; no public hearing 


 has been held; and no trial date set.



 Azerbaijan's law stipulates that pretrial detention can 


 last a maximum of 18 months, meaning the government has until 


 next month to hear the case.



 Farhad Aliyev suffers from heart problems, including 


 hypertension and hypertrophy, but has been denied sufficient 


 medical attention, according to the International League for 


 Human Rights.



 To date, his wife and two children have had no contact with 


 him. They say they have been subject to harassment and 


 surveillance by authorities--notably on the day of his arrest 


 when their home was stormed by armed men and valuables were 


 stolen. The family has since moved to a guarded apartment in 


 view of the National Security Ministry, where the brothers 


 are being held.



 Meanwhile, the business interests of the Aliyev brothers 


 have been confiscated and sold off to ''pro-Russian business 


 enterprises favored by the Azeri authorities,'' according to 


 a study by Mr. Both, the American lawyer.



 He said the charges against the pair are ''the direct 


 result of Farhad Aliyev's position in open favor of 


 [Azerbaijan's] integration into the international community, 


 closer ties with the United States, [the] European Union . . 


 . and successful implementation of economic reforms and anti-


 monopoly policy, all of which run counter the interests of 


 many powerful domestic players.''
