# None
## `f6cbadd38b8dfc71e747946a20d2d9d4`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, I don't remember the last story of a 
state that continued to receive money, have not been accountable to 
Federal dollars, I mean, haven't been accountable in spending those 
Federal dollars. News report comes out that it actually took place, and 
then we turn around and say, oh, well, we know you didn't spend the 
last billions of dollars we gave you. We're going to give you some 
more. As a matter of fact, we're going to come down and help you spend 
this money, and we're going to come down and be a part of this lack of 
accountability by your government. And then we're going to reward you 
with another emergency supplemental that has no strings attached.

You can't reward bad behavior or lack thereof. You cannot say, well, 
it's okay, Governor. It's okay, mayor. It's okay, county commission or 
city commission. If you're not accountable with the dollars, we're 
going to continue to send it to you.

I don't know a police department that received Federal assistance 
from FEMA, okay, who did not do, did not follow the plan of hiring and 
training and making sure that they can patrol their own streets, and we 
sent Federal law enforcement individuals down there to do the everyday 
calls for service. That doesn't happen in America. It should not happen 
in Iraq as long as our taxpayer dollars are being spent, and dollars 
that we've borrowed, Mr. Ryan, I must add, from foreign nations.

This country is in a financial situation as it relates to borrowing 
from foreign nations unlike any other time in the history of the 
Republic. So as we move in this majority body here to correct those 
issues, this is a wonderful opportunity for this government to correct 
itself on the legislative branch and the executive branch, to do the 
right thing, to be accountable for the taxpayer dollars, and, Mr. Ryan, 
the dollars that we've borrowed from other countries, that we have to 
figure out how we're going to pay them back, and at the same time 
continue to maintain some sort of financial standing within the world.

Mr. Ryan, it's always a pleasure, sir, coming to the floor and 
working with you and other members of the 30-something Working Group. I 
know we'll be back a couple of other times this week before we finish 
on Friday.

But we have to stay the course. I'm going to use one of the 
administration's words; stay the course on behalf of those who stood 
for us to be able to talk here in this air conditioned Chamber, 
saluting one flag. We have to stand up for those who have sent us here 
to represent them. And there are people who can vote. There are people 
who cannot vote. They're Republican. They're Democrats. They're 
independents. The individuals that are watching what happens now, 
because as we look back 20 years from now, folks are going to ask, who 
stood up? Who stood up for them? Who stood up for their children? Who 
stood up for their grandchildren?

It's not about my family. It's about all of our families. If you want 
to talk about family values, then let's start doing things on behalf of 
the American people, and let's make sure that future generations have a 
better opportunity than we have.

When that kid asked me on the steps of the Capitol, Mr. Congressman, 
I want to join the Army; I want to be a soldier. Am I going to war? 
That answer shouldn't have been diplomacy and all that. It should have 
been, we're doing our job and working with the international community 
and keeping America safe and, yes, if you want to go into the Army, you 
should go into the Army and serve our country like so many others have 
done.

But it's a sad commentary when we're here debating the obvious of 
what we have to do. Accountability with the taxpayer dollars and 
accountability to those who woke up hearing mortar, hearing improvised 
explosive devices going off, looking at these vehicles towed in from 
the streets of Baghdad because we're doing the job that the Iraqi 
Government should be doing. And we have to stay the course, and making 
sure that we stand up for those that don't have the opportunity to walk 
through this door and put their voting card in these machines and vote 
on behalf of their future and their families.

