# DISCUSSING THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `f6d180b7e11c6090ecab31469a80e6b7`
`Mr. HODES — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Thank you. It's very moving, as we stand here, to think 
about the real impact, the effects of this misbegotten war on the 
people of this country. The war is a cancer on the body politic that it 
is our job to deal with. It's unfortunate.

We were sent to Congress, those of us who are here, largely to serve 
as catalysts for change. The legislation we passed today is that 
beginning, and I recall standing here where I'm now standing in the 
well of the House of Representatives a few weeks ago to welcome to this 
chamber men and women who had recently served their country, who were 
coming from Walter Reed, who had come from other military hospitals 
where, as my friend from New York Mr. Arcuri points out, the costs of 
dealing with the traumatic injuries that have been inflicted on more 
than 25,000 people in this war have not even begun to be calculated on 
the chart next to me. They run into so much money that the mind cannot 
grapple with it.

These brave men and women came to the floor. They came on crutches. 
They came in wheelchairs. And each one is a story of bravery and of 
sadness for me because I saw people whose lives were shattered, people 
without one leg, people without two legs, people without two legs and a 
arm, people without two legs and an arm, with traumatic brain injuries, 
and veterans in addition to the active duty wounded warriors who came 
here to meet Members of Congress and talk to us about the difficulties 
they were having in their lives, veterans for whom the Veterans 
Administration was not responsive, and we have dealt as a new 
Democratic majority with those issues as well.

I tried to think of what I could say. There was one soldier who sat 
in the front row with a young lady, it was his wife or his fiance, who 
wanted to talk to us about what was really happening in Iraq. And he 
started by saying, I have three things to tell you. He said, number 
one, they're not telling you the real story about what's going on 
there. Number two, and he stopped because he'd forgotten number two. He 
couldn't get to it.



He had traumatic brain injury. I ask myself, what will it take for 
the President of this great country of ours, for those predominantly on 
the other side of the aisle who support a surge which has weakened our 
security, strengthened al Qaeda, weakened our military, continued the 
destruction of our reputation in the world; what will it take for this 
President to face the reality of what his policies have created, to 
come before the American people with courage and dignity and say, ''We 
have made some terrible mistakes, and it's time to correct them. We 
will change course, because I know it's the right thing to do. I know 
we must do it. We honor the service of all those who have served in 
this conflict. But now we will go and we will fight al Qaeda where we 
need to in Afghanistan and Pakistan. We will deal and set our strategy 
in the Middle East so that we can effectively deal with the threat of 
Iran, the threat posed by Syria, the threat posed by Hezbollah in 
Lebanon, the threats posed by Hamas and Fattah in the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. We will, once again, reassert our leadership in 
the world with the moral courage, with the principles and the values 
and the dignity that the American people expect. We will face up to our 
past mistakes, but we will lead into the future with a comprehensive 
strategy to protect American security''?

I am waiting. The American people are waiting. Congress is waiting.

Enough name calling. We are all in this together. This is not a 
Republican or a Democratic issue. The comprehensive strategy that we 
have adopted today is an American issue that will move us forward. The 
real honor that this President and those who oppose a new direction can 
do to those brave men and women who came to this floor shattered is to 
acknowledge the past mistakes and move forward to strengthen America 
and protect us all.