---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 3326,  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010; FOR CONSIDERATION OF  HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION 64, FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL  YEAR 2010; FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 4314, PERMITTING CONTINUED  FINANCING OF GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS; FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE  AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2847, JOBS FOR MAIN STREET ACT, 2010
## `f6d54b29b39fd190f7fa1341fde2c0f0`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 16 December 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentlelady 
from Maine.

Madam Speaker, I wish to start by wishing America a very Merry 
Christmas, and to many other Americans, a happy holiday. And I'd like 
to give my thanks to the Rules Committee and the staff of the Rules 
Committee for doing an enormous job. Our chairwoman, Louise Slaughter, 
has been at the forefront of the major successes we have had on behalf 
of the American people. I offer my appreciation as well for Chairman 
John Murtha, who, in his astuteness and commitment to the men and women 
of the United States military, finds many of us today supporting the 
Defense appropriations bill, even as we begin to consider the next 
steps in Afghanistan.

But why am I standing here today to be able to speak to my colleagues 
and the American people? One, because history gets distorted. We are in 
this predicament because the last administration of Republican 
leadership took away our surplus that had been created in the 1990s. 
They dashed and dashed and destroyed and devastated. Isn't it 
interesting that you'd come now to complain about a leadership, 
President and Democratic leadership in Congress, that have had to make 
the political sacrifice to ensure that Americans can work?

And so let me just set the record straight. The American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act--that secured no Republican votes--created 3.5 million 
jobs and gave 95 percent of American workers a tax cut. And today, as 
we speak, we are cutting the job loss every single month. Why I'm 
standing here today is because I'm enthusiastically supporting this 
rule, because we will then pass a jobs bill, and I will be able to go 
home to those in the 18th Congressional District who told me over the 
Thanksgiving holiday as I was participating in feeding those on 
Thanksgiving Day, I lost my job from a major corporation. Well, I'm 
going to tell them that because of infrastructure funding, $48 billion, 
in fact, that we will be able to invest in highways and mass transit. 
One billion dollars in Federal investments to highways creates 27,800 
jobs. Is there something wrong with that? The wrongness of it is that 
the other side is not thinking about the American people, and has not 
had a good thought about how to invest in America.

This jobs bill is going to keep States from cutting teachers and 
police and firefighters, and it's going to provide job training. I am 
proud that they have taken my ideas and many of our ideas, but work 
that I have done on summer youth jobs. They're going to put 150,000 
people in job training positions. One of the ideas that can be 
incorporated that I have put forward in a bill is to make sure that 
people can keep their unemployment while they are in a job training and 
receive a stipend. Dignity, jobs, is what we're talking about.