# PROGRESS IN PASSING LEGISLATION
## `f6dfe485ef480beaee31fedd57fb96ad`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. It's an honor to be 
before the House once again, and I think it's important that we get a 
chance to come to the floor and not only share with the Members the 30-
Something Working Group, some of the issues that we have worked on in 
the past, but those issues that we will continue to focus on in the 
future.

With this being the ''political season'' for those Presidential 
candidates, there's still a lot of work to be done here in the Nation's 
Capital on policy issues that are facing real consideration before this 
House and before the Senate. One may focus on what is happening in the 
campaign trail. But I want to share with the Members tonight, Mr. 
Speaker, on what has taken place here in the Democratic House of 
Representatives, majority, and also how this House has worked with a 
number of our Republican colleagues on the other side in passing major 
legislation that has made it to the floor that would allow Republicans 
and all Members of the House to work together on issues that the 
American people are hoping that we can come together on.

This House has made progress in passing some 177 pieces of key 
legislation, more than 70 percent with a significant bipartisan vote. 
As it relates to the recent past of the last three terms that I have 
been here, we have never seen those kind of numbers before. It's 
important that Members on both sides of the aisle are able to come 
together on legislation that all of our constituents can agree on and 
that we can illustrate to those that are out there that are saying, 
Well, you know, can Democrats and Republicans work together, can 
Democrats put forth legislation that Republicans can vote for,


can Republicans vote for measures that Democrats bring to the floor, 
and I think through the leadership of the Speaker and the majority 
leader and also the majority whip and Democratic caucus and the vice 
chair and the rest of our leadership, the proof is in the pudding.

I want to say that the 177 measures that have gone through this House 
and the 70 percent that have passed with a significant bipartisan vote 
is what the American people called for, what they wanted. So many 
Members of the House ran on, I am going to Washington, DC to represent 
you, I am going to Washington, DC to make sure that you pass sensible 
legislation, and I am not necessarily running to be a part of the 
Democratic caucus or to be a part of the Republican caucus or carry a 
special-interest interest.

I think that when we looked at the new direction that the American 
people were looking for back in the 2006 elections in November, they 
got it. Measures that would have never made it to the House floor have 
made it to the House floor.

I have to speak of a number of my colleagues that were on the floor 
prior to our new Democratic majority back in the Republican-led 
Congress that said, If you give us the opportunity to lead, we will 
lead in a way that you will be proud and that you would feel good about 
the leadership that you have in the House of Representatives. We were 
not only--I mean we weren't speaking to just independents, we weren't 
even speaking to just Democrats. We were speaking to all Americans, 
including Republicans and those that could not even vote yet, that they 
would have a voice on this floor, that they would have an opportunity 
to see a majority that would allow legislation to come to the floor 
that would change their lives.

I also would like to say out of the 177 key measures that were 
passed, 125 of those measures had the support of more than 50 
Republicans in this House.

Now, Mr. Speaker, you're a part of our new majority makers that are 
here. I think that it's important that we reflect on the past so we can 
see what the future is going to be about. I see a bright future in this 
House, you see a bright future in this Congress, and I think if the 
American people engage themselves as Americans and not as Democrats or 
Republicans or independents or Green party, or what have you, saying 
that they are looking for a House that would provide the kind of 
opportunities that they deserve for a Congress, for a government, 
provide the opportunity that they deserve, and they can find faith in 
what the 30-Something Working Group will share with you tonight.

These bipartisan votes that have been signed by the President include 
the Economic Stimulus Act, College Cost Reduction and Access Act, the 
9/11 Commission Recommendations. For instance, let me put a pin right 
there. The 9/11 Commission recommendations was supported and was a 
bipartisan commission that brought about these recommendations under a 
Republican President, a Republican Congress, that the Republican 
Congress would not endorse and would not pass and the President did not 
support. But once this Democratic Congress allowed that legislation to 
come to the floor as part of our Six in 06 measure, we were able to get 
bipartisan support for that measure, and the President signed. So it 
goes to show that being in the majority does help.

Also, the Innovation Agenda bill, the Lobbying and Ethics Reform, 
minimum wage, a bill for improving and expanding Head Start, and 
historic energy independence and security bill that reduced dependency 
on foreign oil, I think it's very, very important that we focus on 
those issues.

Now, Mr. Speaker, I think it's important that we look at the future 
because we have so many issues that are before us even before we finish 
this 110th Congress. We have to start to focus not only on how we are 
going to find ourselves bringing our men and women home, and there was 
a vote last week that was very historic. Never before since I have been 
here in this House that the House has voted in the majority to not 
continue to fund the failed policies of the Bush administration as 
relates to the war in Iraq.

I also think that it's important that as we continue to consider how 
we are going to approach on an emergency supplemental, approach the 
emergency supplemental that the President has asked for to continue to 
fund the war in Iraq, that if I could put it this way on Navy terms, If 
we shoot a shot over the bow of those individuals that are in Iraq, 
what I may call the Iraqi parliament, and let them know that the United 
States of America will not continue to give a blank check to the fact 
that they have not made the political reforms that they need to make so 
that the U.S. taxpayer dollar will be spent in an appropriate way to 
enable the Iraqi government to stand up on their own feet so that we 
are able to provide the necessary resources to our constituents here in 
our country and here in our districts.

I also think that it's important, Mr. Speaker, as we start to look at 
these issues, we look at the largest increase in veteran funding in the 
history of the Veterans Affairs Department, preparing for our men and 
women to come back so they can receive the kind of assistance that they 
deserve because they allow us to salute one flag.

I think it's also important, Mr. Speaker, and also for the Members 
who realize that even though we may disagree on a number of issues, and 
they are a number of issues that we disagree on, we can, if you ever 
heard this, agree to disagree.



But when it comes down to the votes here on this House floor for our 
folks back home, I think it is important that we hold their hopes and 
their dreams paramount in that debate. And because of the kind of 
leadership that we have within our caucus, some 177 key votes, 125 of 
those votes receiving over 50 percent Republican support, it goes to 
show you or show the American people and also Members of Congress how 
we can come together on behalf of the greater good.

I know that Mr. Murphy has joined us, and I want to yield some time 
to him so that he can share as not only a new Majority Maker, but also 
as a member of the majority, as we look at the future, as we look at 
bipartisanship that we speak so highly of, that we should reflect on 
what Mr. Ryan and I said when we first started working on 30-Something 
some 6 years ago, that bipartisanship can only happen when the majority 
allows it to happen.

I think the evidence, the evidence of not only the Congressional 
Record, but the evidence of our words that we have laid on the 
Congressional Record over the years, is that we hold paramount 
bipartisanship, that we hold opportunity, that we hold inclusion. So if 
it is someone, an American somewhere in a super-Republican district 
saying do I have a voice in Congress, will the Democratic majority 
allow my voice to be heard, will the values of my community be heard in 
Congress and will it be allowed to pass the House of Representatives 
and the Senate, I think the proof is in the pudding.

I am hoping on the 30-Something website we can have this information 
placed on that website, so that Americans can go and check the record 
for themselves.

One thing I take great pride in personally, Members, is that the 30-
Something Working Group, we go through a lot of research and the 
members of our group believe in fact versus fiction. We bring fact to 
the House floor. We do not bring fiction. That is what the American 
people are calling for.

Mr. Murphy.