---
---

# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `f6e07520acefcdf67d3ac1f25f960691`
`Mr. LATHAM — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. LATHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the Joshua Omvig 
Veterans Suicide Prevention Act. I first want to thank my friend and 
colleague Leonard Boswell for his service to our Nation, and his 
efforts to bring this legislation forward on behalf of Iowa veterans. I 
was pleased to be an original cosponsor of this legislation when it was 
introduced.

The bill contains many important provisions to ensure that the VA 
health system is better equipped to identify soldiers at risk for 
suicide and respond with appropriate counseling and care. The bill also 
mobilizes federal government agencies to pool their expertise on this 
issue in order to identify the best strategies for suicide prevention.

The bill is named in honor of SPC Joshua Omvig, who served his 
country as part of the Army Reserve 339th Military Police Company from 
Davenport, IA. A little over a year after his return from a tour in 
Iraq, Joshua Omvig took his own life on December 22, 2005. While his 
death was tragic, we are grateful for his service to our Nation.

Our soldiers encounter enormous stress and mental health challenges 
in the course of their duties. We have a crucial obligation to do all 
we can to ensure that our veterans are given proper care and to prevent 
such tragedies from occurring.

No one has done more to secure our Nation's freedom than our veterans 
and military personnel. Their sacrifice and service must be matched 
with greater commitment to them on our part. With that, I urge my 
colleagues to support H.R. 327.