---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `f6ecc73d38a7e4edf62a6f6e84ad031b`
`Mr. BECERRA — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. BECERRA. Mr. Speaker, this past November 2008, the American 
people made a decisive choice to change the course of American policy. 
We wanted change. We asked for change. And that's what we got. Today we 
vote to set in motion further change in the conduct of our foreign and 
national security policy. H.R. 2346, the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act of 2009, asks us to make some tough choices to achieve that change.

President Barack Obama is prepared to make the tough choices. I 
believe we must step up to the plate and do the same by voting for H.R. 
2346. It is the right choice to responsibly redeploy our troops from 
Iraq, to secure and stabilize Afghanistan and Pakistan, and to 
aggressively pursue every avenue of diplomacy to secure international 
support and cooperation for new policies that will lead to lasting 
security and prosperity for every corner of the world.

Some might question aspects of the President's strategy. Some might 
think we can move faster, farther, or smarter. That could be right. But 
in its totality, this proposal is far-reaching yet pragmatic about the 
facts we face on the ground in today's global hot spots.

In addition to funding for military operations, this measure includes 
a number of important policy provisions and support for the tools of 
''soft power'' that will save lives. It is high time that we make real 
investments in American diplomacy--investments that put men and women 
in suits on the frontline before placing our men and women in uniform 
in harm's way. The Supplemental Appropriations Act extends the 
prohibition on construction of permanent military bases or 
installations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The President will be required 
to provide Congress with a detailed plan to close the detention 
facility at Guantanomo Bay. And this legislation will compensate our 
troops who have had their service compulsorily extended.

Mr. Speaker, make no mistake, I am troubled by the Iraqis' lack of 
progress in taking control of their security and economy. I am 
concerned about how we will navigate the treacherous waters of 
Afghanistan and now Pakistan. I firmly believe our government and our 
military must have a coherent exit strategy in the region. Yet I see in 
this legislation the elements of a long-term strategy to change the 
course of affairs in a challenging part of the world where we cannot go 
AWOL.

These are tough times filled with tough choices. But, today, the 
world believes we are ready to lead. Let us support the President. Give 
him a chance to take our country in a new direction. Let us pass the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009.