---
---

# None
## `f6f00a7f1919ef5ef6ba5ac6e91b9952`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, this amendment that I bring to the 
floor of the House under limitation on bases in Iraq is an amendment 
that addresses the subject matter that we have debated on the floor at 
least twice before that I recall. And I believe there is a consensus 
here in this Congress, and certainly there has been a message that has 
been put forth by the President, that we are not interested in 
permanent bases in Iraq but we do have bases there and we do have 
temporary basing agreements.

So as I read through this appropriations bill and it says that ''None 
of the funds made available in this act may be used by the Government 
of the United States to enter into a basing rights agreement between 
the United States and Iraq,'' that language clearly forbids any 
agreements, however temporary they might be. And so the amendment that 
I bring to the floor simply adds the word ''permanent'' to that 
language. So that now, if the amendment is adopted, it will read that 
none of the funds may be used to enter into a ''permanent'' basing 
rights agreement.

I think it is a matter of language and semantics here but a matter of 
clarity, too. And I would point out that in our last debate in the 2007 
DOD approps, Mr. Murtha made the statement, what we are saying with 
this bill is that at this point in time there shouldn't be any 
permanent bases in Iraq. What I have done is offer an amendment that 
simply says there won't be any of the funds used to promote permanent 
bases in Iraq out of this Foreign Ops bill.