# None
## `f6f88254fe65ea513da97260f2bf8931`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Thank you very much, Mr. Meek, and my 
condolences go out as well to the Davis family.

Mr. Meek, I am glad you started where we left off last time, talking 
about children's health care, because it is still on the table. For a 
lot us, we still believe that it has hope. This 2-week period in which 
we postponed a vote on the override will give our friends on the other 
side of the aisle the opportunity to rethink their position on this 
issue, to go back to their districts and talk to the millions of 
families, thousands and thousands of families in each congressional 
district across this country who are struggling with the real peril 
associated with trying to get health care in this country.

We are talking about 6 million kids which are going to lose health 
care if we don't reauthorize the national Federal Children's Health 
Program, the SCHIP program. We are talking about 4 million new kids 
that don't have health care now that could have health care.

We are really talking about families that are playing by the rules, 
who are doing everything we ask of them, working one job, two jobs, 
maybe even three jobs, but can't get health care through their 
employers. It just makes sense for us to reach out and try to help 
those families.

Mr. Speaker, it makes sense not only because it's the right thing to 
do from a moral standpoint, but we care about our fellow human beings, 
and we are our brother's keeper. But reaching out a helping hand to a 
sick child who lies in their bed simply because their parents can't 
afford a doctor, that is part of our moral obligation as Members of 
Congress, but it's also the fiscally responsible thing to do. These 
kids get health care, but they don't get health care until they get so 
sick that they end up in emergency rooms, and they end up getting the 
least humane, most expensive health care available to them.

Madam Speaker, this bill, the SCHIP bill, the Children's Health 
Insurance bill, which we hope we will have enough votes to override the 
President's veto on next week, this is not just about our moral 
obligation as a Congress, but it is also about our fiscal


obligation. I know Ms. Wasserman Schultz will talk about this today.

It is also about choices. This is not about play money, found money 
or new money. This is about taking funding that we have been sending 
for far too long into the civil, religious conflict in Iraq. Thirty-
seven days worth of funding of that war could insure every child that 
the SCHIP bill seeks to cover, 10 million kids. In the end, this is 
just about choices.

Madam Speaker, we have still got time to convince a few folks on the 
other side of the aisle to join us. You remember, Ms. Wasserman 
Schultz, when this bill first came before the House, there were only a 
handful of Republicans that supported that. They went back to their 
districts over the course of August and they came back to take another 
shot, and, guess what? We had almost three to four times as many 
Republicans who, after they went back and heard from their constituents 
on this, decided they were going to stand with us, stand up for 
children's health.

I think the same thing can happen again next week if families 
throughout this country, if hardworking Americans who have no health 
care, go to their Members of Congress and say, listen, it is time to do 
the right thing for kids, time to do the right thing for families, time 
to do the right thing for health care. I think we can have a victory.