---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 301,  PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `f701dd39c5b008f4753036b922f32958`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 1556 provides for the consideration of 
H. Con. Res. 301, directing the President, pursuant to section 5(c) of 
the War Powers Resolution to remove the United States Armed Forces from 
Pakistan. The rule provides 1 hour of general debate in the House, with 
30 minutes controlled by Representative Kucinich and 30 minutes 
controlled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The rule waives all 
points of order against consideration of the concurrent resolution, and 
provides that the concurrent resolution shall be considered as read.

Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman from Ohio for pressing for 
greater scrutiny on our involvement in Pakistan. By introducing this 
resolution, Representative Kucinich triggered an expedited process for 
consideration that can be modified only by a special rule. This is why 
we are doing this concurrent resolution today.

I'm sure my good friends on the other side of the aisle will remember 
that this is the exact same process used in 1998 and 1999, when the 
House Republican majority introduced resolutions to withdraw U.S. 
troops from Bosnia and the Republic of Yugoslavia while our American 
men and women were stationed in those countries.

As Democrats, we welcome a vigorous debate on this resolution. Just 
like the debates we have had over U.S. policy and military operations 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, and countless other places around the world, 
debate has never jeopardized the safety of our troops in the field. 
American troops are never endangered by Congress doing its job, looking 
closely at and debating the merits of where we send our troops and the 
price they might pay for our putting them in harm's way.

There are many reasons, Mr. Speaker, why we should have a broader 
debate about U.S. military involvement in Pakistan. Over the past 9 
years, the United States has provided $18.6 billion to Pakistan, with 
about $12.5 billion of that in security-related aid. The administration 
has asked for $3 billion for fiscal year 2011, with over half of those 
funds going to security assistance.

There are currently about 120 U.S. military trainers, mainly Special 
Operations personnel, in Pakistan according to a July 11 New York Times 
article. Pakistan has set that cap on the number of U.S. military 
personnel, although other statements from the Defense Department 
indicate that the number of total U.S. military personnel may be as 
high as 200.

The New York Times also reported on July 13 that the Pakistan 
intelligence agency exerts great sway over the Afghan Taliban and a 
wide range of other militant groups that operate from inside Pakistan. 
Yesterday's revelations in the documents published by WikiLeaks echoed 
these disturbing conclusions.

There have been a rising number of terrorist plots in the United 
States with links to militant groups in Pakistan, most recently the 
failed car bombing in Times Square. A recent study by the Rand 
Corporation concluded that this might be due in part to continued 
support by Pakistani leaders for these groups so that Pakistan may 
continue to influence events in Afghanistan, as well as a U.S.-Pakistan 
counterinsurgency effort that has not yet proven to be effective, and 
fails to protect the local population.

In addition, Mr. Speaker, there is Pakistan's continuing development 
of nuclear weapons and purchase of nuclear reactors from China.

Having said all this, at the same time there are many things the U.S. 
is doing right in Pakistan: supporting the strengthening of democratic 
institutions; providing substantial support for primary, middle, 
technical, and higher education; supporting agricultural development; 
and providing substantial aid for populations displaced by violence.

Mr. Speaker, I support the privilege of the gentleman from Ohio to 
bring


this matter before the House and present his arguments on the need to 
remove all U.S. military personnel from Pakistan.

I reserve the balance of my time.

