# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `f7015d2a40568b2a1249798fc02e889d`
`Mr. INHOFE â€” 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I have been here and have listened to the 
two previous speakers. Let me echo and agree with the remarks made by 
the Senator from Wyoming about the Senator from Arizona. I serve as his 
second ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, and I have 
watched his leadership for quite some time now. Also, I have to say the 
Senator from Wyoming and I are both on Foreign Relations. I have also 
watched his leadership in this.

I come from a little different perspective than some because I am on 
both committees. One of the things I have


been concerned about for a long time has been that many people don't 
have a firm understanding as to the threat we are under in this 
country. We have heard a lot of different explanations about the intent 
of article V of the treaty. On the one hand, the Obama administration 
assures us that there are no limitations on our missile defenses. On 
the other hand, as has been stated by the two previous speakers, the 
Russian Foreign Minister states that there are obligations regarding 
missile defense in the treaty that constitute a legally binding 
package. I think that was covered well by the senior Senator from 
Arizona. I will mention three things that pretty well lock in, in my 
mind, this connection that is there.

The preamble of the treaty recognized the interrelationship between 
strategic offensive arms and strategic defensive arms, and that 
interrelationship will become more important as strategic nuclear arms 
are reduced. That means it will be increased and that current strategic 
defensive arms do not undermine the viability and effectiveness of the 
strategic effective arms of the parties.

I quoted yesterday extensively this. The foreign minister of Russia, 
Sergei Lavrov, said:




 We have not yet agreed on this missile defense issue, and 


 we are trying to clarify how the agreements reached by the 


 two presidents could relate with the actions taken 


 unilaterally by Washington.


He added that the Obama administration had not coordinated its 
missile defense plans with Russia.

There is a stronger statement made in the very beginning that already 
has been quoted; that is, that the treaty can operate and be viable 
only if the United States of America refrains from developing its 
missile defense capabilities quantitatively or qualitatively.

I wish to also mention that, as far as this link is concerned, I had 
occasion to be in Turkey not long ago, and I talked to the Ambassador 
to Turkey, Eric Edelman. Many of us remember he was the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Policy. A couple months ago, he made a very strong 
statement:




 New START, unfortunately, introduces limits and obstacles 


 to further development in precisely these means of defending 


 the country. As part of the ratification process, I would 


 hope that, at a minimum, the Senate will express its sense 


 that no further limitations on either Missile Defense or 


 Prompt Global Strike should be considered as part of the 


 future nuclear arms reduction agreements.


He was referring to any other agreements, not just this one.




 Allowing any further such constraints could well prove a 


 major error in long-term strategy because they would trade 


 away areas of U.S. comparative advantage for reductions in 


 Russian strategic forces that would be likely to happen even 


 in the absence of a treaty.


Let me try to break this down. I think an awful lot of people have 
heard these same words repeated over and over. Yes, certainly there is 
no one here who can say there is no relationship between any 
restrictions they are desiring in terms of our ability to have a 
missile defense system. We know what happened in Poland, and I happened 
to be over in Afghanistan when the President announced his budget--that 
was his very first budget. At that time, several of us had been 
involved with both the Czech Republic, where we were anticipating the 
building of a radar system, as well as Poland for a ground-based 
interceptor. One of the things that was very offensive about that was 
several of us--and I can remember personally the President of the Czech 
Republic saying to me, in the Czech Republic, are you sure that if we 
take this risk and we are willing to do this, because we believe it is 
the right thing to do, that you won't change administrations and come 
to pull the rug out from under us? And I said, I can certainly give you 
that assurance. Unfortunately, that is exactly what happened. I think 
people realize what happened when he gave his military budget. He did 
away with--he terminated that system.

This is a chart that I think most people agree with. It came from the 
Congressional Budget Office. As you know, we have over here in Alaska 
and down in California ground-based interceptors. Originally, there 
were going to be quite a few more. Then they dropped it down to 44, and 
recently--under this administration--it went down to 30 ground-based 
interceptors. So we feel, and I feel--and I think most people agree--
that something that is coming in from North Korea and coming across 
here can be detected, can be shot down, and if missed the first time, 
you would have another run at it. So I have stated several times we are 
in pretty good shape for this.

But if you look at the footprint of the coverage, it goes over and 
barely covers the eastern part of the United States, and of course 
definitely, over here in Western Europe. If this should happen, I don't 
think there is anyone--and I have talked to a lot of experts--who 
believes if for some reason we were not accurate, and not right the 
first time, there would be another chance to do it. All you have to do 
is look at this chart and I think you can see that threat is out there; 
that coverage is out there; that certainly there is a question as to 
whether we would be able to do it with a ground-based interceptor 
coming from this direction.

This is Iran over here. The reason we have this on the chart is 
because it is pretty well accepted, not even classified, that Iran will 
have the capability of sending a missile over by--the year they use is 
2015. If we had the ground-based interceptor in what we called the 
third site, which would have been here in Poland, then we would have 
been in a position to have that deployable, initially, in 2012. That 
date was then slipped to 2015. Well, 2015 happens to be the same date 
that the Iranians will have this capability, and that is the scary 
thing.

Let me go ahead and walk through this on this other chart on the 
timing. According to the phased adaptive approach, which replaced the 
idea we are going to have a ground-based interceptor in Poland, it says 
that in phase one, the 2011 timeframe, we would be able to deploy the 
current and proven missile defense systems available in the next 2 
years, including the sea-based AEGIS system, the SM-3 interceptor--that 
is the Block 1A--which would be down here.

This is something we have now. This chart shows here something that 
is coming from Tehran over to the United States, let's say to 
Washington, DC. If they have this capability over here, we can see that 
we would have to have a capability of the ground-based interceptor in 
Poland. So here we are right now, the capability that they have in Iran 
would be portrayed right here. This is their capability. This is our 
capability to kill something coming over. That is where they are today. 
This is where they are going to be in 2015. This IRBM capability would 
be sometime around the year 2012 or 2013.

When we look at what our capability on this side is, we see that 
phase one, according to the administration, would be the 2011 
timeframe. That is a sea-based AEGIS with the SM-3 interceptor, Block 
1A.

Phase two would be the 2015 timeframe. That is when we are getting 
into--they say after appropriate testing--deploying a more capable 
version of the SM-3 interceptor, Block 1B. This is the Block 1B right 
here. So this would give us a little greater capability in both the 
sea- and the land-based, but that would be for a short- or medium-range 
missile threat.

Then phase three. This is phase three here. This is what they state 
we would be able to have by 2018. That would be an SM-3 Block 2A. In 
order to gravitate to--not quite sure I am accurate on this--what would 
be the capability that we would have with a ground-based interceptor in 
Poland, it would have to be the SM-3, 2B.

Phase four, that is the SM-3, 2B, which they are estimating might be 
as early as 2020. But that is ''might be.'' There is no time range or 
agreement that it would be. That is in the best scenario.

So by eliminating this capability here, that would have been 
deployable by 2015, and going to something that might be deployed by 
2020, when they have the capability, we believe, by 2015, that is the 
scary thing.

I have often said--and I know it is an oversimplification--when you 
look at the treaty we are talking about, it is with the wrong people. 
That is not the threat I see out there. I see North Korea. And by the 
way, North Korea is going to have this same capability, we believe--
well, now, actually for 12,000 kilometers, and 10,000 would reach the 
United States from Tehran. We know--no one denies--that Tehran and 
North Korea are trading capabilities and technology.



I only wanted to come to say there is a real threat out there. This 
is something that is real. It is something we have looked at and we 
were able to accept at one time, before they took down the siting in 
Poland. So now we have a treaty that I think, by anyone's 
interpretation--after you have heard the senior Senator from Arizona 
and the junior Senator from Arizona, and the Senator from Wyoming and 
others speak on this--that does certainly, at the very least, have the 
threat of reducing our capability of defending ourselves.

I only want to point that out, to get into the Record how serious the 
threat is, what the timeframe is and why we should be not even 
considering a treaty unless we have the language incorporated in 
amendments--that would be offered I believe by a number of Members on 
this side, including myself--addressing the missile defense.

I yield the floor.