---
---

# PRESIDENTAL VETO
## `f7183868d0cd57a391a7057babd44067`
`Mr. HARKIN — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, it is hard to believe, but we are on the 
farm bill. As any casual observer might notice, we are not doing 
anything. We sit here with an empty Chamber. The farm bill has now been 
on the floor for over a week. The farm bill was laid down a week ago 
yesterday, as a matter of fact, and nothing has happened. Why hasn't 
anything happened? Because we can't get anything from the other side.

We want to move ahead. We wanted to ask unanimous consent to go ahead 
with an amendment with a time limit, vote on it, and move to another 
amendment, but the other side refuses. The Republican leadership 
refuses to move ahead on the farm bill. I suggested earlier today that 
we may at least want to have some amendments up. We cannot get consent 
on the other side. So here we sit. At this rate, we may not have a farm 
bill.

We worked very hard on it this year. First, on the other side in the 
House, they got a farm bill passed early. We met and worked hard on it 
all summer long and worked with the Finance Committee to get extra 
funds to meet our obligations. I am checking on this right now, but I 
believe we had a record movement of a farm bill through our committee 
this year--a day and a half, a short day and a half.

Now, this is my seventh farm bill. I have never seen anything move 
that fast. It was the result of weeks and weeks and months and months 
of working with the other side, with everybody working together, 
hammering out agreements, before we brought it to the committee. That 
is a good way of doing things around here. You establish relationships, 
figure out what people need to make sure they take care of their 
constituents. We came out of committee with not one vote against the 
farm bill. That never happened before, either, to the best of my 
memory. We always have a split vote coming out of committee on the farm 
bill. So it took a day and a half to get it out.

I commend my ranking member, Senator Chambliss, who worked very hard 
on his side to pull things together. I don't even know how many 
amendments we had in that day and a half--four, five, or six--not very 
many. We disposed of them; we either adopted them or not. When we voted 
the bill out, we didn't have one dissenting vote.

So you would think a bill such as that coming to the floor could be 
handled rapidly. But then we got here and we wanted to move it, so our 
majority leader, exercising his right as majority leader, said we will 
do this bill and we will do relevant amendments. If it is relevant to 
the farm bill, we will take all comers. Bring them all. That sounds 
good to me--open debate, open amendments. Bring on the amendments to 
the farm bill. But the other side said, no, they may have some 
extraneous amendments dealing with children's health care, estate 
taxes--I don't know what else. We may have had some on this side too. 
But we were agreeing that we would not take any non-relevant 
amendments, whether they were from Democrats or Republicans. I thought 
that was a pretty good way to proceed, to just focus on the farm bill. 
The Republican side said no.

We have been locked here for over a week. I say to my friends in farm 
country--farmers, ranchers, agribusiness, the suppliers, wholesalers, 
retailers, shippers, those who sell seed, the elevator operators, 
fertilizer dealers, and those in the livestock industry, who want to 
know what the farm bill is like so they can plan ahead on whether they 
are going to milk more cows or fewer cows: Will the milk go to class A 
or class B? Will we feed more cattle or will we shift to feeding hogs? 
What is the lay of the land going to be? They need certainty. The 
livestock market is volatile as it is, but they need some certainty as 
to what we are going to do here. That is why we worked very hard to get 
the bill done, hopefully, by December, which is not unusual--except for 
the last farm bill when I was chairman at that time, the House was in 
Republican hands and the Senate was Democratic, and we got it through 
ahead of schedule. But for that one exception, every farm bill comes in 
late. That is just the nature of things around here, I guess. We 
usually get them done by December. The present farm bill is expired. We 
are now on a continuing resolution.

I say to my friends in farm and ranch country, you ought to be 
calling up the minority leadership and saying we ought to get this farm 
bill through. We have to get it through. But if we don't move soon, we 
will have an extension of the present farm bill. We will just extend 
it. All the work we have done this year will be for naught. We will 
have to pick it up again some other time. That may be what will happen 
because of the fact that we cannot get an agreement to move ahead. We 
are stuck here at 6:20 in the evening, and we have been on the bill 1 
week with not one amendment. All we ask is for the other side to bring 
forth amendments, and we will get ours and start moving.

I know we are trying to work things out. After a while, my patience 
runs out. Next week, we have Thanksgiving. People want to go home for 
Thanksgiving. If we don't finish the farm bill this week, it is going 
to be hard to have a farm bill done before we go home for Christmas. I 
know what it is like after Thanksgiving when we come back. We have 3 
weeks, and we have all our appropriations bills. I am chairman of one 
of the appropriations subcommittees. We have all that to do. We have 
the Iraq war funding to consider, and we have some tax bills. Everybody 
is going to want to get out of here and get home for Christmas.

I say to all those watching, if we don't get a farm bill done this 
week, it will be hard to get one done this year. Maybe we will have to 
go into next year sometime to get it done. I hope that doesn't happen, 
but here we sit with no action, and there are going to be other things 
to be brought up this week, such as conference reports.

So here we sit. I hope we can reach some agreement and move ahead 
rapidly. If we don't, it looks as if we may be in for a long continuing 
resolution on the farm bill--either into next year or beyond. I don't 
know when we can


finally get it done. But it is too important to just leave it go. We 
would like to get it done. Is there everything in the farm bill I would 
have wished for? No. Senator Chambliss and every member of the 
committee could say the same thing. That is the art of compromise. This 
bill is a good compromise among all regions of the country. I hope we 
can move ahead.

I want to talk a little about one area of the farm bill about which I 
feel very passionate. Even though we have done some good things, we 
haven't done as much as we need to do, considering the enormity of what 
confronts us in terms of the loss of our soil, the pollution of our 
water and waterways, and the degradation of whole areas of this country 
because of intensive cropping or lack of good practices. We are facing 
a dire circumstance in this country where we are going to lose the 
productivity of our soil. Almost like global warming, it may reach a 
point where the scales have tipped so far that to get the productivity 
back, to clean up our waterways might be almost impossible or will cost 
so much money that we won't be able to do it.

All of the farmers I have fought for so hard over these last 32 years 
are what I call the front line of conservationists. Farmers and 
ranchers want to protect the soil. They want to leave it better for 
future generations. When you are caught between a rock and a hard place 
in terms of all of the input costs, what it costs to produce a crop, 
the demands on those crops, and some negative incentives in the system 
right now in terms of Government support to farming and ranching--you 
put all those together, and there is a counterpressure, if you will, 
from the Government and from society at large against the farmer being 
a good conservationist.

We are placing tremendous demands on our food and fiber producers in 
this country--tremendous demands--and, with the ethanol boom and 
others, even more demand for the productivity of our soil. So what is 
happening right now, in many cases, is we are pushing it to the limits 
and beyond the limits to what soil can carry and what our water can 
carry, and now we have to think about being really good 
conservationists, not on the scale of the individual farmer but on a 
national scale.

I wish to take some time to talk about conservation and what is 
happening in our country at large in terms of conservation and what is 
happening to our soil and water in America and why we have to do 
something about it and why little steps, little things aren't going to 
do it. We need some big steps, big interventions, just as we do on 
global warming. The previous two speakers talked about that. If we just 
tinker around the edges, it won't mean anything. It is the same with 
conservation. We need a national commitment to a conservation ethic to 
restore, renew, and preserve our waterways, our soil, our wildlife 
habitats, and, yes, the source of our water. All that needs to be 
preserved.

I have some pictures I wanted to point to here, some charts to give 
an idea of what I am talking about. I will bet you, Mr. President, a 
lot of Americans have seen this first picture somewhere. Every school 
kid has seen it in a history book. It is reprinted time and time again 
in one of our periodical magazines, talking about the great Dust Bowl 
of the 1930s.

What was the Dust Bowl? It took place in the panhandles of Oklahoma, 
Texas, some in New Mexico, Colorado, Kansas, up into Nebraska, and 
stretching up into South Dakota. This is one of the famous pictures 
taken in Cimarron, OK, in 1936 in the Dust Bowl. You can see there is 
no grass, nothing. You can see that the top of the posts are covered 
with dust. And there is a farmer and his kids running to take shelter 
from yet another one of the dust storms. That was in Cimarron County.


The year before that, in 1935, under President Franklin Roosevelt, 
the Soil Conservation Act passed and the Soil Conservation Service 
began providing help and service to farmers on conservation.

The next picture shows what happened that year. This is another 
famous picture, of a dust cloud in Kansas. On April 14, 1935, a dust 
storm started in eastern Montana, western North Dakota, rumbled through 
South Dakota into Nebraska, across Kansas into Oklahoma and into Texas. 
This dust storm was called Black Sunday. It was the biggest dust storm 
ever. In fact, it was preceded the previous year by a dust storm that 
swept from west to east that dumped dust on New York City. New York 
City got so dark it had to turn on its lights. Ships at sea could not 
dock in New York City because of the dust.

There is a wonderful book that I recommend that was released last 
year. This book by Timothy Egan is called ''The Worst Hard Time: The 
Untold Story of Those Who Survived the Great American Dust Bowl.'' I 
recommend this book.

First of all, it is a great read. He tells a wonderful story about 
the Dust Bowl, but he tells the history of the whole area and what 
happened in that area in the 1890s, 1900s, 1910s, 1920s, up to the 
1930s. Here is what he said:




 By some estimates, more than 80 million acres in the 


 southern plains were stripped of topsoil.


Mr. President, 80 million acres.




 In less than 20 years, a rich cover that had taken several 


 thousand years to develop was disappearing day by day.


Eighty million acres of grassland turned over, grassland that he says 
in the book was laid down almost 20,000 years ago. As he said, this was 
land the buffalo couldn't hurt, the tornadoes, the fires, and the 
floods struck, but the grasslands stayed, and they came back year after 
year.

But then there was the land rush. That area was opened up to 
homesteaders. They came in with plows and new equipment. They plowed it 
all up, turned it over.

As one person said in Timothy Egan's book, he looked around and said: 
There is something wrong here; the wrong side is up. The dirt is up and 
the grass is down and the wind started blowing. And then came Black 
Sunday, April 14, 1935, the worst dust storm in recorded history. I 
don't mean in this century; I mean in recorded history, the worst dust 
storm ever.

Again, when people look at that picture and they read about Black 
Sunday, they say: That is all over with; we took care of that 
situation. But look at this next photograph: a dust storm, the same as 
you saw before, and this time with color photography. That is a dust 
storm in the same area in Kansas, taken last year. The same huge dust 
storms rumbling through the plains because we have, once again, 
stripped the soil bare, turned the wrong side up, and we lack good 
conservation practices.

Here is another picture. This one could have been in the thirties 
just as the first picture I showed, but this was taken in South Dakota 
last year. Here is a fence. We can barely see it. The top of the fence 
is almost covered, and it stretches as far as the eye can see. That is 
just dust and a few tumbleweeds. That is South Dakota last year.

I hope we can recall the lessons of the thirties and what putting 
marginal cropland in production will really cost us.

This farm bill will prohibit allowing newly broken native sod into 
the Crop Insurance Program. That is vitally important because you 
cannot be covered under the disaster provisions of this farm bill 
unless you buy crop insurance. So if you turn over native sod, you 
cannot get crop insurance on the newly broken land, and you will not 
get disaster payments, and you will not be eligible then for all the 
other programs. So there is a strong provision in this bill to at least 
save some of the native sod because history can and will and does 
repeat itself, as we have just shown.

That is the dust. Here is the water. This is a cornfield in my part 
of the country. We can see that it has rained, and there is water 
running off. It is running probably into a ditch, that ditch drains 
probably into a small stream, that small stream runs into a bigger 
river, and that river goes into either the Missouri River or the 
Mississippi River.

What happens is when this soil and water runs off, it is taking with 
it phosphorous, and it is taking with it nitrogen, washing down into 
the river. What happens to it? When it goes down river, it winds up 
down south of New Orleans. In this next photograph, the red area is 
called the hypoxic area, the dead zone in the mouth of the Mississippi. 
This picture was taken by satellite this year. That area in red is now


the size of New Jersey. These nutrient levels are so high, that it 
triggers an explosive growth of algae; when the algae dies, the 
decomposition process consumes all the oxygen, so all marine life 
dies--no crabs, no shrimp, no nothing.

So, again, the water we saw running off these fields goes into the 
Mississippi, and this is what happens to it.

What can be done about it? There are things that can be done about 
it. This picture show us one. I showed you a picture a little bit ago 
of the water running off the field. That wouldn't happen here. This is 
the Boone River watershed, Hamilton County, IA. We see buffer strips 
along the streams. So if there is a heavy rain, any runoff will be 
trapped by the trees and the grasslands and whatever else is in 
between.

Those nutrients are good for trees. It makes them grow. The trees 
keep the nutrients from going in the water. Practices such as this are 
promoted by several conservation programs--the Conservation Stewardship 
Program, the EQIP program, the Environmental Quality Incentives 
Program, and the Conservation Reserve Program, especially the 
continuous signup.


What is so important to note is that these are incentives paid to 
farmers to do these strips. One might say: Why wouldn't farmers just do 
that on their own? Why? Because of economics. The Senator was present 
today when I mentioned earlier about my backyard. I happen to be one of 
a few people who actually lives in the house in which he was born. Not 
many people can say that. I actually live in the house in which I was 
born.

A lot of people say: Harkin, I live in the house I grew up in.

I said: That is not what I said. I live in the house in which I was 
born. I wasn't born in a hospital. I was born in a house, as were all 
my five siblings. We lived in a small town in rural Iowa. People were 
born at home.

In my home, we have a nice backyard with fruit trees. My wife planted 
a nice garden out there. Ever since I was a kid, I always thought I 
knew where the end of our garden was to the east, and there has always 
been a field there, about a 140-acre field with corn and beans.

Because of the high price of corn and the high price of beans, the 
owner of that property sent a notice to all of us who live around it 
saying: I just had my property resurveyed, and my property is about 6 
feet more into your property than what you think.

He has his rights. No one ever bothered to think about it in the 
past. We had our garden there, and we had our trees. As a consequence, 
I am going to have to have some of our bushes and trees taken out and 
move the line back. I guess I mind a little bit, but the guy is within 
his rights.

One might think: What does 6 feet mean? Up until now, 6 feet never 
meant a hoot to any farmer who farmed that land, and it has gone 
through three or four different hands. No one ever cared about it. 
Because the demands are now so high on the owner of that property, and 
I am sure the farmer who farms that land says: You know, that extra 6 
feet, I can grow a few more rows of corn in there and get some more 
money. So before next year we have to move everything back, and they 
get another 6 feet.

I tell that story to demonstrate the pressures that farmers are under 
to plow and plant right up to the fence row or anyplace they can get.

I don't know the farmer who owns that land in this photograph, but I 
can tell you his economic pressures are to plant right up to the 
stream, to get rid of all that buffer and plant right up to the stream. 
Why doesn't he? Because he is in a conservation program that is giving 
him incentives, payments to provide a continuous strip through there. 
He might have made a little more money if he had planted right up to 
it, but he has probably a CRP agreement for 10 years, maybe has a CSP 
contract.

I know a lot of farmers in Iowa who have done buffers like this. You 
know what, Mr. President. They feel better about it. They feel better 
about it because they know they are helping keep the water clean. They 
are farming the way nature really meant for them to farm. But because 
of economic pressures, they need help.

That is what this farm bill does, it provides some help and support. 
They get a benefit, but I can tell you, he probably would make more 
money if he plowed right up to the stream. But he is willing to give up 
a little bit as long as he gets some help from the Government to put 
this buffer in. They feel better about it.

What do we get out of it? Cleaner water, fish, not hypoxia down in 
the Gulf of Mexico. It cleans up our waterways. It preserves our soil 
for future generations. That is what is in this farm bill, to help them 
continue to do that.

I talked about the Midwest. How about the East? Here is a farm in 
Pennsylvania that uses many of our conservation practices. We see strip 
cropping and contour farming. They have some corn, maybe some alfalfa 
in there for livestock. It is good conservation practice. It looks as 
if he has a good rotation practices on this land.

There is one other item in this photograph. We see the city out here. 
It is encroaching on his farmland. There is a program called the 
Farmland Protection Program which buys easements on land, permanent 
easements on land. So that land cannot be converted to development; it 
has to stay as farmland. Again, here is a farmer. He could be getting 
CSP, the Conservation Stewardship Program. He may have gotten some EQIP 
money, and he may be getting farmland protection program money. I don't 
know. But those are all programs involved in preserving the land. We 
can see the strip cropping on the hillside and the contour plowing. 
That is what he has done to hold back the water. Again, part of our 
farm bill is to provide money for the Farmland Protection Program.


Here is something a little bit closer to where we are here in the 
Capitol. Any of us who have been around this area for any time knows 
the Chesapeake Bay is polluted. Now, not all of that Chesapeake Bay 
pollution is because of farmland. There is a lot of industrial waste 
coming from factories and from other places up and down--plants, people 
dumping stuff out and going into the Chesapeake Bay. That has to be 
stopped. But a big part of the Chesapeake Bay problem is the nutrients 
coming off a lot of our land, such as livestock waste. It comes from 
the whole Chesapeake Bay watershed, which extends all the way to New 
York State. So New York State, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, 
Maryland, a little bit of West Virginia, all that water dumps into the 
Chesapeake Bay, eventually.

Here is a farm in New Castle County, DE. Again, this is a prime 
example of conservation of the Chesapeake Bay watershed. Prior to this 
picture being taken--you can see some wetlands and farm fields in the 
background--where that wetland is, crops used to grow. So from those 
fields, nutrients ran off right into the bay. Through conservation 
programs and through the Wetlands Reserve Program, this farmer has gone 
back and, with the help of conservation, has put this back into a 
wetlands, secluded off from the Chesapeake Bay, so any runoff filters 
through the wetlands. It filters through the wetlands before it gets to 
the Chesapeake Bay.

If anybody wants to see how a wetlands works, you don't have to go 
more than about 15 miles from where this Capitol is, southwest of here. 
There is something called the Huntley Meadows Wetlands Reserve. I 
recommend it highly for anyone. Go down there and take a stroll through 
the wetlands. They have done a great job. They have preserved the 
wetlands, and it is right in the middle of a city. All of a sudden you 
go from housing developments and busy thoroughfares up Route 1 and down 
south, and all of a sudden you are in a wetlands area. A lot of the 
runoff from apartment houses and businesses and parking lots and 
everything else drains into this wetlands. By the time it gets through 
and dumps into the Potomac River, it is clean. The wetlands cleans it 
up. It is 15 miles from here where you can see it happen, Huntley 
Meadows.

This bill provides $160 million for the Chesapeake Bay to do this 
kind of work to back up into the farmlands, restore wetlands, and help 
farmers build the structures and do the things to clean up the 
Chesapeake Bay. We can do it. This farmer did it in Delaware.

Now, this photo is from Georgia. Well, you can't see much except this 
shows pine trees back here. All pine


trees back here, but in the past they were overgrown and so thick that 
wildlife could not use it for habitat. So they thinned it out to 
provided for some wildlife cover in that area. One of Senator 
Chambliss's priorities was to add a feature to the Conservation Reserve 
Program that will result in better management of soft wood pine stands 
currently enrolled in the CRP. The Senate bill invests $84 million in 
this effort. Again, showing the breadth and the depth of what we are 
doing on conservation in forested areas in the South, making sure we 
have good conservation at work there also.

And lest we forget about the West, this is Arizona. This is well-
managed grazing land. The Conservation Stewardship Program provides 
incentives to increase current conservation, use better management 
practices, such as rotational grazing that better utilizes the resource 
base and increases wildlife habitat. The Senate bill continues to 
devote 60 percent of the Environmental Quality Incentives Program to 
livestock needs.

Again, it is hard to see here, but what we are trying to show with 
this is that with fences, with rotational grazing, you don't feed down 
all the grass and don't create areas where the wind blows all the dust, 
or if they have a heavy rain it runs the soil off. This is good 
conservation practice and rotational grazing. You graze for a while, 
then you move them on. But in order to do that, you obviously need some 
fences, and fences cost money. So we provide that kind of help. If a 
rancher wants to get involved in good conservation practices with 
rotational grazing, we help with that. We help with that. So even in 
the Arizona southwest, we can make a difference.

Well, now you might wonder about this picture. Well, we are all 
familiar with the problems affecting honeybees and other pollinating 
species. In this farm bill, we have made strategic changes to help with 
this issue. In the Conservation Reserve Program, the Conservation 
Stewardship Program, and the Environmental Quality Incentives Program, 
we emphasize the creation and improvement of both the native and 
managed pollinator habitat. We require the Secretary of Agriculture to 
update conservation standards to include consideration for pollinators. 
Now, our Senate bill provides clear direction to focus conservation 
programs on creating, improving, and maintaining pollinator habitats 
and to revise and update conservation practices to include pollinators.

Again, together these practices will help to establish better 
pollination. We know we have had a problem with honeybees dying. We 
don't know exactly what is causing it. They are doing a lot of research 
on it now. But we do know one thing. In order for our prairies once 
again to blossom and do all the kinds of conservation work we need, we 
need that little animal called a honeybee for pollination purposes. So 
this bill invests in that also.

Coming full circle, when I started off my talk, I showed pictures of 
the great Dust Bowl in Kansas and places such as that--eastern 
Colorado. That is where this picture was taken. If you could take a 
picture of here in 1935, you would see the Dust Bowl. What has happened 
in this area, obviously a housing development has grown up, but in the 
foreground you will see grassland. That is a grassland reserve. They 
can't build houses there. You see a part of it, but this is a huge 
grassland reserve--protected by an easement that ensures that it stays 
in agricultural production. Grass will grow there, and livestock will 
graze, and the grass will hold the soil down, and keep the dust from 
blowing.


So, again, in this Grassland Reserve Program, there are about a 
million acres enrolled right now, but we haven't been doing it very 
long. Remember, I mentioned in the Dust Bowl that 80 million acres--80 
million acres--were turned up. We have a million in protected 
grassland. We have a long way to go. We have a long way to go. But we 
put in $240 million for the Grassland Reserve Program in this bill to 
continue the program.

Now, again, I want to digress a little bit on this grassland. You 
see, one of the other things we are doing in our farm bill is we are 
providing money for ethanol--cellulosic ethanol. Ethanol not made from 
row crops, such as corn, but cellulose made from grass, such as this. 
With the research we are doing, we know we can make ethanol from these 
grasses. We are getting the right enzymes to make it economical. The 
scientists and engineers tell me that in 5 years or so we will have an 
economical means of making cellulosic ethanol. We are already investing 
in that in several ethanol plants around the country.

Imagine, if you will, this huge area of grasslands in the Plains 
States, where I showed the picture of the Dust Bowl.

This is the picture I showed earlier of a dust storm in Kansas last 
year. Now imagine, if you will, that rather than cropping this land, as 
we do every year, we have grassland. Now, as Timothy Egan pointed out 
in his book, nature has a way of selecting the best ecosystem over a 
long period of time. Nature does that, whether it is the rain forest up 
in the Northwest, the bay area here for shellfish and others, and 
backwaters, where all the fish life starts, or in the grasslands in the 
Plains areas. So over thousands and thousands and thousands of years, 
nature laid down this thin topsoil, and on top of it grew grasses--
buffalo grass, blue stem, others--and through selectivity, over periods 
of time, were the hardiest to grow there. They sent their roots down 
20, 30 feet into the ground, and they could withstand years of drought, 
the worst blizzards, and grass fires that used to sweep across the 
Plains.

Anyone who has ever read the Laura Ingalls Wilder book ''Little House 
on the Prairie'' knows how she talks about the threat of these huge 
fires sweeping through and all of that kept coming back, the grasslands 
that were there. Millions of buffalo ranged up and down there and had 
enough food to sustain them forever, and in 20 years we turned over 80 
million acres of it that then dried up and blew away.

But think about this. We are going to have cellulose ethanol made 
from grass. Ten years from now, fifteen years from now, twenty years 
from now, we could see much of this land back into grassland. Not for 
buffalo to graze on but being grown as cellulosic feedstock being cut 
for ethanol and making fuel for our country. You don't have to plow it 
up. You leave it there, you cut it, it stays there and grows the next 
year. We can have the best conservation, we can have our grasslands, 
and we can produce the fuel we need for this country and do it in a way 
that is in concert with nature.

So that is why it is so important we get this grassland back and 
provide the incentives to protect as much of this grass as possible, 
and that is why we put $240 million into this bill.

The last couple of things I want to show is the Conservation Security 
Program, now renamed the Conservation Stewardship Program, which has 
enrolled about 15 million acres since 2002. This was a new program put 
into the farm bill in 2002. You see, most conservation programs are 
programs designed to give incentives to someone to take land out of 
production, put it into grassland, put it in trees, wetlands and buffer 
strips. And that is an important part of conservation.

But there is a lot of working lands. We need farmers to be better 
conservationists on working lands, lands that are being cropped. That 
means, for example, putting on the right amount of fertilizer and other 
management practices that can make a big difference for the 
environment.

Through the Conservation Security Program, I saw areas where farmers 
enrolled, and transitioned to precision agriculture, with equipment 
guided by the Global Positioning System. They had soil tests done of 
their farm, and rather than applying the same amount of fertilizer all 
over, they put the right amount of fertilizer wherever they applied 
it--more one place, less in another place. They were able to monitor 
and get the right amount of fertilizer so it wouldn't run off. They 
were able to buy equipment so they could do minimum tillage, where they 
didn't have to turn the soil over with the plow. They could combine, 
cut the cornstalks and leave it right there on the ground.

I visited a farm in southern Iowa this summer that was in the 
Conservation Security Program. With help the farmer received from the 
program, he had purchased some equipment to do what I am talking about. 
Then he took me over his land. He had corn last year. This year, he is 
planting beans. So he


is on a rotation, which is good for the soil. But he left all his 
cornstalks chopped and laid on the ground. At the time of my visit, 
there was rain in his area. It rained almost 5 inches--5 inches in 
about 12 hours. Now that is a heavy rain. We drove all over his land in 
a four-wheel drive vehicle. He hardly had any soil runoff because that 
rain would hit those cornstalks on the ground, slide off--he almost had 
literally no soil runoff.


Right across the road was a farmer who was not in the program and was 
planting corn up and down the hillsides and there were ditches where 
the water had taken that soil and run off the farm into other ditches, 
into streams, and the soil was gone.

The program in the 2002 farm bill was a conservation program to help 
farmers be better conservationists on land on which they were actually 
producing crops or livestock. They didn't have to take land out of 
production. They just had to do things better: minimum tillage, crop 
rotations, buffer strips, applying with the right amount of 
fertilizer--that type of thing. For producers who have been able to 
enroll, it has worked wonderfully.

But there has been one problem. The administration decided to allow 
enrollment on the basis of a watershed rotation. Over eight years, the 
program would supposedly cover all the watersheds in the country, but 
it has fallen far short of that goal. That is the bad news.

The good news is in this farm bill we get off the watershed rotation, 
and make CSP a national program--producers in every watershed and 
region of the states would be eligible to enroll, every year. Producers 
are ranked based upon the level of conservation they are already doing, 
and how much new conservation they are willing to do as part of the 
contract. We are strengthening this program.

It is hard to see on this chart, but the conservation security 
program is in every State in the Nation. It is all over, from 
Washington, Oregon, California, all across the east coast. A lot of 
people have said it is mostly for the Midwest. That is not true. On the 
east coast, on the far west up in Idaho. We even have some in Alaska, 
even some in Hawaii--again, to protect our soil and other resources.

The point I want to make here is in the last 5 years since we put 
this program in, we have enrolled 15 million acres. I know that sounds 
like a lot, but under the new program we have in this bill, with the 
funding we have, we will enroll 13.2 million acres each year in this 
program--13.2 million acres every year. We had 15 million acres in 5 
years. We will do almost as much every year for the next 5 years. This 
means by the end of this farm bill we will have about 80 million acres 
enrolled in this program.

What will that mean? It will mean cleaner water, better wildlife 
habitats, less soil runoff; a better environment, a healthier 
environment for farmers, their families, and for all of us. That is why 
this program is so important.

It is sad to say, the House didn't put anything into this program and 
actually cut the program from baseline. It is an important program, one 
that can do a lot of good for our country. But it needs to be funded 
properly to give producers a fair shot at enrolling for it to do the 
good it has the potential of doing.

Last, here is the kind of thing we are looking at here. We talked 
about the soil and the land but it all comes down to people and the 
kind of people we have farming, and their families. That is what it 
comes down to. How do we nurture beginning farmers? How do we get young 
people involved in this?

Here is a young dairy farmer, Matt Fendry. He is 25 years old. He 
farms near Lanesboro in southeast Minnesota. He is a beginning farmer. 
He sells his milk through Organic Valley out of Lafarge, WI.

Matt, like many beginning farmers and ranchers, will benefit from the 
provisions we have in the conservation title. Here is how we do it.

For beginning farmers like Matt Fendry, and socially disadvantaged 
producers, we have included a special increase in cost-share rates up 
to 90 percent. So if the young man here wants to do good conservation 
work on his land--maybe rotational grazing the grassland for his 
cattle--it probably will cost him a little bit to get some things 
established. He can get back 90 percent. He only has to put up 10 
percent of this money. The Government will come in for 90 percent for a 
beginning farmer.

Ten percent of our conservation programs will be reserved for 
beginning farmers. And for the first time we will allow the Secretary 
of Agriculture to advance up to 30 percent of the value of an EQIP 
contract to beginning and socially disadvantaged producers so they can 
purchase the materials they need for conservation work.

Most of the EQIP money that will go to Matt for what he will do for 
good conservation would come after he does it, maybe a year after. That 
means he would have to borrow the money, and pay interest. Now we give 
the Secretary authority to get what he needs, 30 percent up front, so 
if he needs to put in fencing, buy seed, whatever he needs to get this 
operation going using good conservation, he can get up front.

I think that is probably the bottom line here on my whole talk this 
evening, and that is what can we do for conservation. But what can we 
do to get young people involved in a way so they start from the very 
beginning, not just being a producer but being an environmentally 
conscious producer and one who, from the very beginning, protects our 
soil, our water, and our wildlife habitat? That is the goal of this.

You can see I am very passionate about this. I am passionate because 
if you read history, you know what we are doing. We saw it in the 
photos at the beginning of my presentation--we are repeating the 
mistakes of the past. We are abusing the land and pushing it beyond its 
productive capacity. As I said--the farmers want to protect their soil 
and their land. But the economics of agriculture drives producers to 
produce as much as they can when prices are high. The farm bill has to 
counter those pressures.

It is not good for this country. It is not good for our society. It 
is not good for rural America. So we need to make some changes in this 
farm bill and redirect it and guide it toward more conservation.


Back in 1998, I was wondering why it was that Europe was spending so 
much of government money on their farmers, yet they were complying with 
the World Trade Organization restrictions on farm subsidies. We are 
spending less money on our farmers and somehow we are not complying. I 
wanted to see what were they doing in Europe different than we were 
doing. So I traveled around and visited a lot of their farms.

No matter where I went, I saw a pristine countryside. I saw a 
countryside with small towns that were vibrant. I saw soil that was 
protected, waterways that were decently clean--some areas better than 
others. Finally I began to figure it out, what countries like France, 
Belgium, Germany, Spain, England, and Denmark were doing. They were 
making ''green payments'' to farmers, payments to farmers for 
conservation. Under the WTO, that is in the ''green box,'' which means 
it doesn't count against WTO limits. So some of the Europeans figure 
out here is the way we support our farmers, our small towns, our 
communities, clean up our water, provide for a beautiful countryside, 
and, guess what, we don't take a hit in the WTO because of that.

That made me think. I come back, traveling around through this 
country, I see the wind blowing, I see the dust storms, the soil 
erosion, the hypoxia maps in the Gulf of Mexico, what is happening to 
the Chesapeake Bay, and I think: Wait a minute, why aren't we doing 
that?

We have a program now, a direct payment program--$5 billion a year, 
$25 billion over the life of this farm bill, that started in 1996, of 
direct payments to farmers. To qualify for direct payments, all you had 
to do is have base acreage and a certain crop back in 1981 to 1985. You 
don't have to plant anything to get this money.

Moreover, the bigger you are, and the bigger the base you had, the 
more money you get. The result is that these payments lead to a cycle. 
More direct payments means a greater opportunity to expand. More 
expansion means more direct payments. It is like a black hole, there is 
nothing to stop it.

I am concerned that this cycle is hurting family farmers. It 
encourages producers to get bigger and bigger. Yet here we go, $5 
billion a year, $25 billion


over the life of this. It seems to me it would make much more sense and 
would be more supported, I think, by the general populace, if we took 
that money and put it out in green payments to farmers to build the 
buffer strips, the contours, the wetlands, the grasslands--yes, paying 
farmers to help them use the right amount of fertilizer and do 
rotations and things such as that, that help preserve the soil.

Conservation programs are perfectly acceptable under WTO. We get a 
lot out of it. I am hopeful in the coming weeks, maybe as we go to 
conference on this farm bill, we can do more for conservation.

I want to say we did a good job on conservation in this bill. I am 
not denying that. We put good money in conservation. I thank my ranking 
member, Saxby Chambliss, and all the others on the committee. It was a 
hard fight but we got the money in there. But it is not quite enough 
when you look at all the other things in the farm bill. We moved the 
ball forward, but I think with the demands on our farmers now, what we 
see happening around this country, we need an even greater commitment. 
We need to do a lot more in conservation than we have ever done before 
or pretty soon the scales will tip so far that the kind of money it is 
going to take it to do it will be prohibitive.

That is why I take the time of the Senate tonight to talk about 
conservation. We need a better conservation ethic in this country. As 
we consider the farm bill, we need to be talking about soil and water 
conservation, helping farmers be better stewards of the soil and water. 
I am hopeful as we move into more debate we can make a few changes that 
will add some money to conservation before we go to conference. We have 
done a lot in the farm bill, but we have a lot more we can do.

So I ask any Senator out there who has an amendment, if you have not 
filed it, you better file it because pretty soon we may cut it off.

I am not encouraging amendments, you understand. I am just saying, if 
you have one, you better get it in in a hurry, and we will take a look 
at it.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.