# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `f7265f09f99e1c3edb1814fdcaf27598`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 21 May 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I thank my friend and colleague from 
Colorado for his statement and his inspired leadership. We have worked 
on a number of different issues. I can recall the extraordinary 
leadership the Senator from Colorado provided last year when we debated 
comprehensive immigration reform. He brings to this issue a knowledge 
and understanding and perspective which is very special in terms of any 
issue, particularly this one. I have enjoyed working with him and look 
forward to continuing to do so. I hope our colleagues listened 
carefully to his message because he has demonstrated a thoughtfulness 
about this issue, as so many others have, a very strong, balanced 
judgment on these questions. I thank him, as always, for an excellent 
presentation and


look forward to continuing to work closely with him as we move through 
the debate on whether we are going to take the opportunity to mend our 
broken immigration laws.

I thank the Senator from Colorado.

Madam President, today, we take up the solemn task of immigration 
reform--not just because we may but because we must.

Our security is threatened in the post-9/11 world by borders out of 
control.

Our values are tarnished when we allow 12 million human beings to 
live in the dark shadows of abuse as undocumented immigrants.

Our economy is harmed when our immigration system fails to protect 
the American dream of a good job and decent wages.

Our competitiveness in the global economy is at risk when our 
employers cannot find the able workers they need.

Our immigration system is adrift and urgently needs an overhaul from 
top to bottom.

The answers are not simple or easy. We cannot meet this challenge by 
simply building fences. We need comprehensive and commonsense solutions 
that meet the immigration needs of this century.

We begin this debate mindful that immigration issues are always 
controversial. There are strong views on every side of this question 
because the issue goes to the heart of who we are as a nation and as an 
American people.

But we should remember in this debate that we are writing the next 
chapter of American history. Immigrants made the America of today and 
will help make the America of the future.

I am reminded of this awesome responsibility each time I gaze from 
the windows of my office in Boston. I can see the Golden Stairs from 
Boston Harbor where all eight of my great-grandparents set foot on this 
great land for the first time. They walked up to Boston's Immigration 
Hall on their way to a better life for themselves and their families.

So many Americans can tell similar stories of ancestors who came from 
somewhere else. Some built our cities. Some toiled on our railroads. 
Some came in slavery--others to raise their families and live and 
worship in freedom.

That immigrant spirit of limitless possibility animates America even 
today.

Today, immigrants harvest our crops, care for our children, and own 
small businesses.

They serve with pride in our armed forces--70,000 in all. At this 
very moment, many are risking their lives for America in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

Immigrants contribute to scientific discovery, to culture and the 
arts. They help make our economy the most vibrant one on the planet.

Our strength, our diversity, our innovation, our music, our hard 
work, our love of country, our dedication to family, faith and 
community--these are the fruits of our immigrant heritage and the 
source of our national strength. They have made America the envy of the 
world.

As President John F. Kennedy so eloquently wrote, the secret of 
America is that we are ''a nation of people with the fresh memory of 
old traditions who dared to explore new frontiers, people eager to 
build lives for themselves in a spacious society that did not restrict 
their freedom of choice and action.''

Last week, we reached a historic agreement on a far reaching 
bipartisan immigration plan that lives up to this heritage. It involved 
hard negotiations between Democrats and Republicans, and it has the 
support of President Bush. Our plan is strong, realistic, and fair. It 
is a commonsense immigration policy for our times.

It is tough at the border. It doubles our Border Patrol from 14,000 
agents to 28,000. It hires 800 new investigators and 800 antismuggling 
officers. It builds more fences and more detention centers, and 
provides more state-of-the-art, high-tech border enforcement equipment.

It is tough on employers who hire illegal immigrants in defiance of 
the law. Today, it is too easy for an employer to hire an undocumented 
worker and pay them substandard wages in sweatshop conditions. That 
hurts American workers. It depresses wages. It allows employers to 
avoid paying payroll taxes.

Our bill says no more worker abuse. Under our plan, employers must 
verify that they hire only legal workers. If they do not, they can be 
fined up to $5,000 for a first offense and up to $75,000 for subsequent 
offenses. They can even go to jail.

Our bill says that these tough enforcement measures must be in place 
first before we move forward with changes in future immigration. Future 
workers cannot come in until we have doubled the Border Patrol, built 
more fences, enhanced our equipment and technology along the border, 
and the employer verification system has begun. It is enforcement first 
and future workers later.

Our plan also addresses the 12 million undocumented immigrants who 
are in America today. They have something to contribute. They are men 
and women of dignity. They work hard every day. They care for their 
families. They revitalize decaying neighborhoods. They sit in our pews 
on Sundays.

We witnessed this recently in my own State of Massachusetts. An 
immigration raid in New Bedford disrupted the lives of scores of 
families who had laid down roots in the New Bedford community. Their 
children were in our schools, many of them born in America. They worked 
every day in a factory making equipment for our troops in Iraq.

We are not going to round up these 12 million men, women and children 
and send them home. That is not the American way. So our plan allows 
these families to earn the privilege of remaining here and working 
legally.

They have to pay a $5,000 fine over an 8-year period. They have to 
work and pay taxes. They have to learn English. They cannot be 
criminals or national security risks and they must obey our laws.

The heads of family must make a trip home for a day or two sometime 
in the next 8 years to submit their applications for a green card at an 
American consulate just like other immigrants applying to come here. 
Then they are guaranteed the right to come right back to America right 
away to rejoin their families while they wait for their green card 
applications to be considered.

Finally, they have to get in line for their green cards behind 
everyone else who has been waiting to come here legally.

If they meet these tests, they will be welcomed into the sunshine of 
America. They will have no fear in coming forward and joining the 
American family. They will not be deported. Instead, we welcome them as 
our neighbors and as our friends and as future citizens of this great 
land.

Our plan also continues to stress family reunification--a 
longstanding tradition under our immigration laws.

Today, if you are trying to bring your relatives here legally, you 
might have to wait 22 years to get visas for them. As a result of this 
backlog, 4 million family members of American citizens and legal 
immigrants are on the waiting list to come here. Our plan expedites the 
reunion of these families and eliminates the waiting list in 8 years.

In the future, our plan continues to make family reunion the highest 
priority. It says if you are an American citizen or a legal immigrant, 
you can bring your immediate family here to join you--your wife or 
husband, your minor children, and your parents.

Of the 1 million green cards we issue each year, two-thirds will be 
dedicated to reuniting these families.

But under our plan, more distant relatives will no longer have an 
automatic right to immigrate. They must first prove that they have the 
skills, education, and English abilities to contribute fully to our 
economic strength.

Finally, our plan recognizes that our economy will continue to need 
hardworking people who are willing to come here for a few years. We 
need nurses and home health care aides. We need farm workers and 
janitors and hotel workers. We need computer programmers and scientists 
and engineers. So our program will allow them to come as guest workers 
under a program with strong labor laws that protect American jobs and 
wages.

Our plan is a compromise. It involved give and take in the best 
traditions of the U.S. Senate. For each of us who crafted it, there are 
elements that we


strongly support and elements we believe could be improved. No one 
believes this is a perfect bill.

But after weeks of negotiations and years of debate, this bill 
accomplishes our core goals. It provides tough new enforcement at the 
border and the work site. It allows a realistic path to family security 
and eventual citizenship for millions of men, women, and children 
already here. And it provides a new system for allocating visas in the 
future that stresses family reunion and national economic needs.

I don't usually quote Republican Presidents, but President Reagan 
understood the integral role that immigration plays in our country's 
future. As he said so eloquently in one of his last speeches before 
leaving the White House:




 We lead the world because, unique among nations, we draw 


 our people--our strength--from every country and every corner 


 of the world. And by doing so we continuously renew and 


 enrich our nation. While other countries cling to the stale 


 past, here in America we breathe new life into dreams. We 


 create the future, and the world follows us into tomorrow. 


 Thanks to each wave of new arrivals to this land of 


 opportunity, we're a nation forever young, forever bursting 


 with energy and new ideas, and always on the cutting edge, 


 always leading the world to the next frontier. This quality 


 is vital to our future as a nation. If we ever closed the 


 door to new Americans, our leadership in the world would soon 


 be lost.


The world is watching to see how we respond to the current crisis. 
Let's not disappoint them.

I urge my colleagues to vote to proceed to this debate and to support 
our new plan.

Madam President, we have two of our colleagues on our side, I 
believe, who are on their way to the floor at the present time.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.