---
---

# None
## `f72b65b0f4213992d53f389a27eec5f6`
`Mr. POE — 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. POE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise in support of House Resolution 937. 
This measure recognizes the vital communication services provided by 
the American Red Cross to U.S. servicemen and servicewomen serving 
overseas. Seven days a week, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, the 
American Red Cross provides notification of family emergencies and 
other important events as to birth and death notices to our forces that 
are in the field in lands far away.

Whether it be in Iraq or Afghanistan or aboard a ship in the Indian 
Ocean, the Red Cross messaging system can communicate between members 
of military families where other civilian means of communication 
cannot. American Red Cross officials are able to verify emergencies and 
relay information that is critical to a commander's decision whether to 
release a servicemember to allow him or her to return home during a 
time of family hardship. In addition to providing notification, the Red 
Cross often provides families in crisis with support until a 
servicemember can return home.

I want to thank the author of this resolution, the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Burgess), for giving us this opportunity to commend the 
American Red Cross for its outstanding service to our country's troops 
and their families. The people of the United States are grateful for 
the dependable support that the American Red Cross has provide us in 
times of crisis for the past 127 years.

I urge my colleagues to support House Resolution 937.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.