# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f73b87c57dfa6b8a4252ba6662e24876`
`Mr. BAIRD — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, every Member of this Congress, every Member 
is absolutely committed to the security of our families, our 
communities, and this Nation. And every Member is absolutely committed 
to supporting our troops and our veterans.

The real question today is not whether we are committed to security 
or whether or not we support the troops; the real question is how we 
believe that security is best achieved. On that, there is legitimate 
disagreement which is, or should be, what this debate is about. To have 
this debate is not only a right but a responsibility of the elected 
Representatives in a Republic such as ours. Indeed, it is to defend 
that very right that our young men and women are serving not only in 
Iraq but around the world.

None of us here today need to be reminded about the threat of 
terrorism from floor speeches or from Presidential homilies. But let us 
not forget that the terrorists of 9/11 did not originate in Iraq, they 
came from Afghanistan. And, with only one exception, every Member of 
this body, Democrat and Republican alike, voted to prosecute the war 
against the terrorists in Afghanistan, bring al Qaeda to justice, and 
topple the Taliban.

We were united then, along with virtually the entire world, and the 
fight was right. Iraq, however, is different. The focus on Iraq has 
distracted and detracted from the mission in Afghanistan and the real 
battle against terrorists. The President and the rest of the 
administration took this Nation into an unnecessary and ill-conceived 
war based on false threats and with a deeply flawed plan.

Before this war, I and many of our other colleagues asked the 
administration some fundamental questions: How many troops will this 
take? How many lives will be sacrificed? How long will we be there? 
What will it cost financially? How will we pay for it? And how will 
this impact our security profile elsewhere in the world?

The fact is, this administration has never answered any of those 
questions fully or honestly. Never. Either they know the answers and 
refuse to say them, which is duplicitous; or, they do not know the 
answers, which is incompetent. Sadly, it appears a little of both is 
operating.

I voted against this war from the outset, and believe to this day it 
was the right vote. But once we were committed and engaged, I, along 
with most of my colleagues, voted to continue to support our troops, to 
try to achieve success in our mission, and do our best to help the 
Iraqis rebuild their country. We fervently hoped and continue to hope 
the mission would succeed; but now, several years later, more than 
3,000 lives later, U.S. lives alone, and nearly $1 trillion later, as 
we consider the President's latest proposal, we must ask again, ''Mr. 
President, how many lives? How long will we be there? How much will 
this cost? And how will you pay for it? And what does it do to the rest 
of our security position?''

We still have no answers to those questions. And lacking such 
answers, which are fundamental to the security of this country and the 
safety of our troops, I must vote ''yes'' on this resolution and ''no'' 
on expansion.

My colleagues, it is irresponsible to allow a Commander in Chief who 
has not been honest or accurate from the outset to continue sacrificing 
the lives, the bodies, and the families of our


troops in a mission that lacks a clear end point or a successful 
strategy. It is dangerous to permit a Commander in Chief to jeopardize 
our Nation's security by letting our military equipment, readiness, and 
troop morale continue to decline, and it is shortsighted and unwise to 
leave our National Guard and Reserve unprepared and under-equipped to 
respond to challenges overseas or at home. It is strategically unsound 
to concentrate so much of our intelligence resources in one nation. It 
is unsustainable for our economy to keep pouring billions of dollars 
every week into this ill-conceived plan, and to pile debt upon our 
children with no strategy for paying it back. It is a breach of trust 
to not fund the needs of our veterans when they return home. And it is 
immoral to leave our soldiers dying and bleeding in the midst of a 
centuries-old religious conflict that is not of our making and is not 
of our power or responsibility to resolve.

In written comments, I describe what I believe is a better course. 
Some of our friends have said there are no plans. I have offered a 
plan, and I urge you to look at it.

But before I conclude, I must also respond to those who suggest that 
if we don't give unquestioning support to this administration 
regardless of what they ask for, regardless of history, and regardless 
of the evidence on the ground, that we are empowering the terrorists or 
undermining our troops. I believe the evidence suggests, from this war, 
that while there may be differences of opinion about policy, this 
Congress and the American people have and will continue to support our 
troops. It is a sign of strength of our very form of government, which 
is, after all, what we are hoping to promote in Iraq and elsewhere in 
the world that we should have this debate.

Our allies and adversaries understand that if we turn the course of a 
failed policy and the President has not been honest with us, that is 
not cutting and running; that is wisdom, it is courage, and it is 
honesty. That is what this resolution is about. That is what we owe the 
soldiers who have already given their lives, and that is what we owe 
the families and that is what we owe the future of this Nation.