# THE OSCE PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY SESSION IN KAZAKHSTAN
## `f73e91d41206444983e4ce25a1f81b8b`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 25 July 2008`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, I hereby submit, for the 
Record, the text of my report to you on the activities of the U.S. 
Delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, held in early July in 
Astana, Kazakhstan. I want to thank you for allowing me to serve as the 
head of this delegation, and to express my gratitude to our colleague 
in the other chamber, Senator Ben Cardin, for serving as the deputy 
head of the delegation.

I will refrain from repeating here the details of our trip, which can 
be found in the report, but I would like to make three brief points.

First, I want to praise the work of my 10 colleagues who participated 
on the delegation, namely Mr. Aderholt, Mr. McIntyre, Ms. Solis and Mr. 
Butterfield who serve with me on the Helsinki Commission, as well as 
Mr. Wamp, Ms. Loretta Sanchez, Ms. Watson, Ms. Bordallo and Ms. Moore. 
All were active at the meeting, either speaking or introducing 
resolutions on issues of concern or making amendments to the 
initiatives of other delegations. Our colleague Hilda Solis deserves 
special praise for seeking and being elected to chair a committee in 
the OSCE PA this coming year, as does Gwen Moore for her many 
initiatives that kept her busy.

Second, I want to stress to all my colleagues how useful engagement 
in world affairs is, and the degree to which it advances U.S. interests 
by being out there, ready to discuss, to debate and ultimately to 
cooperate in making this a better world. In the framework of the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation for Europe, or the OSCE as it 
is often known, there is a strong parliamentary dimension that allows 
us to engage our allies and friends in Europe and Canada, and including 
the countries of the Caucasus and Central Asia. We discuss everything 
from human rights and democracy, to energy and the environment, to 
regional security and terrorism. I invite my colleagues to consider 
joining me for next year's session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly 
in Vilnius, Lithuania.

Third, I want to say a word about Kazakhstan, which served as this 
year's host. Kazakhstan is a large, resource-rich and strategically 
located country, and a country that wishes to play a stronger role in 
the OSCE and in world affairs generally. The U.S. delegation used its 
presence in Astana to welcome that fact, and to express our willingness 
to work with Kazakhstan to that end. At the same time, the Assembly 
meeting provided an opportunity to stress the need for Kazakhstan to 
make greater progress regarding human rights and political reforms, in 
line with its OSCE commitments but also with specific promises its 
leaders made when the OSCE designated Kazakhstan to chair the 
organization in 2010.

The final declaration of the OSCE PA Annual Session can be found on 
the Assembly's website or by contacting the Helsinki Commission, which 
I chair. Again, thank you Madam Speaker, for giving me the opportunity 
to lead this delegation, which accomplished a great deal.


























July 21, 2008.


 Hon. Nancy Pelosi,


 Speaker of the House of Representatives,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Madam Speaker: I write to thank you for designating me 


 Head of the U.S. Delegation to the Seventeenth Annual Session 


 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for 


 Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE PA), and to report 


 to you on the work of our bipartisan delegation. The 


 delegation participated fully in the activity of the 


 Assembly's Standing Committee, the plenary sessions and the 


 Assembly's three General Committees,



 Joining me in leading the delegation was the Helsinki 


 Commission Co-Chairman, Senator Benjamin L. Cardin. Other 


 Helsinki Commissioners who also participated include 


 Representatives Robert B. Aderholt, Mike McIntyre, Hilda L. 


 Solis and G.K. Butterfield. They were joined by 


 Representatives Zach Wamp, Loretta Sanchez, Diane Watson, 


 Madeleine Z. Bordallo and Gwen S. Moore.



 This year's Annual Session, hosted by the Parliament of 


 Kazakhstan from June 29 to July 3, brought together 227 


 parliamentarians from 50 of the 56 OSCE States. The 


 designated theme for this year's gathering was ''Transparency 


 in the OSCE.''



 The Standing Committee, which is the leadership body of the 


 Assembly composed of the Heads of Delegations representing 


 the OSCE participating States and the elected officers, met 


 prior to the Annual Session. Chaired by the OSCE PA 


 President, Swedish parliamentarian Goran Lennmarker, the 


 committee heard reports from the Assembly's Treasurer, German 


 parliamentarian Hans Raidel, and from the Secretary General, 


 R. Spencer Oliver of the United States. The Assembly 


 continues to operate well within its overall budget 


 guidelines and to receive positive assessments from auditors 


 on financial management. The Standing Committee unanimously 


 approved the proposed budget for 2008/2009, which provides 


 for increased expenditures of just under seven percent to 


 cover inflation and a small increase in secretariat staff.



 The Standing Committee also heard reports from the Special 


 Representatives of the OSCE PA on a variety of issues of 


 concern. I presented a summary of my activities as Special 


 Representative on Mediterranean Affairs, which included a 


 recent Commission hearing, a briefing on the plight of Iraqi 


 refugees and my participation on the congressional visit you 


 led to Israel in May, marking that country's 60th 


 anniversary. Similarly, Rep. Solis spoke in her capacity as 


 the Special Representative on Migration, highlighting recent 


 Commission hearings on women migrants and on regional impacts 


 and opportunities for migrants. Rep. Christopher H. Smith, 


 the Special Representative on Human Trafficking Issues, was 


 unable to be present in Astana and asked that his written 


 report be circulated to delegations. It highlights visits to 


 Bosnia, Romania, Russia and Ukraine as well as a recent 


 Commission hearing on combating the sexual exploitation of 


 children. Senator Cardin attended the Standing Committee in 


 his capacity as an OSCE PA Vice President.



 In my capacity as Head of the U.S. Delegation at the 


 Standing Committee, I welcomed the decision of the Assembly 


 to hold an event in Washington on the upcoming U.S. elections 


 immediately following a September meeting of the OSCE PA in 


 Toronto, Canada.



 With the Standing Committee's business concluded, Assembly 


 President Lennmarker opened the Inaugural Plenary Session, 


 noting the importance of holding its first Annual Session in 


 the Central Asian region. The delegates were, in turn, 


 welcomed by Kazakhstan's President, Nursultan Nazarbayev, who 


 noted the importance of parliamentary diplomacy in democracy-


 building and further humanitarian and legal norms. The two 


 Speakers of the Kazakhstan Parliament, Kassym-Jomart Tokayev 


 of the Senate and Aslan Mussin of the Mazhilis, also 


 addressed the delegates. OSCE Secretary General Marc Perrin 


 de Brichambaut of France reviewed the work of the OSCE and 


 took questions from the parliamentarians.



 Members of the U.S. Delegation actively participated in the 


 work of the Assembly's three General Committees: Political 


 Affairs and Security; Economic Affairs, Science, Technology 


 and Environment; and Democracy, Human Rights and Humanitarian 


 Questions. Each committee considered a draft resolution as 


 well as 18 supplementary items circulated by delegates prior 


 to the opening of the Astana meeting. One additional 


 supplementary item was considered during the opening plenary.



 Five of the supplementary items were resolutions proposed 


 by members of the U.S. Delegation: Encouraging Transparency 


 in the Extractive Industries, by Senator Cardin; Recognizing 


 the Economic, Civic and Social Contributions of Mirgrants, by 


 Rep. Solis; Strengthening Efforts to Combat Trafficking in 


 Human Beings and Addressing the Special Needs of Child 


 Victims by Rep. Smith (and, in his absence, Rep. Wamp); 


 Urging Adoption of the Paris Club Commitment Regarding 


 Vulture Funds by Rep. Moore; and my own resolution Expressing 


 Concern Over the Security Environment in Georgia. All were 


 adopted with few if any amendments.



 Parliamentarians from Russia, I should note, very strongly 


 opposed my resolution on Georgia, as did some European 


 parliamentarians, but I remained firm, pointing to the




 moderately worded text and noting past willingness of U.S. 


 delegates to consider and support as warranted resolutions 


 critical of U.S. policies. Recent Russian action in the 


 Caucasus was of sufficient concern to a majority of the 


 delegates present that the resolution was ultimately adopted.



 U.S. delegates were also instrumental in garnering support 


 for Supplementary items by others, including a Canadian 


 resolution on Afghanistan, a Ukrainian resolution on 


 Holodomor (Ukrainian Famine-Genocide), and a Belgian 


 resolution on Combating the Sexual Exploitation of Children. 


 In addition, the U.S. Delegation introduced 20 amendments to 


 various resolutions, covering issues from pollinator decline 


 to religious freedom. Virtually all of them were adopted, and 


 by dividing our work almost every member of the U.S. 


 Delegation managed at least one resolution or amendment in 


 committee. I would like to particularly note the 


 exceptionally strong effort made by Rep. Moore, who had her 


 own supplementary item and numerous amendments, including 


 those calling for international action to reduce maternal 


 mortality which were agreed to be a basis for a resolution at 


 next year's Annual Session.



 Belgian Senator Anne-Marie Lizin presented a report in 


 committee on her latest activity as the OSCE PA Special 


 Representative on Guantanamo Bay. Rep. Butterfield responded 


 for the U.S. Delegation, expressing appreciation for her work 


 and describing the latest Supreme Court, congressional and 


 non-governmental efforts dealing with this stain on the U.S. 


 human rights record.



 Rep. Solis served as Acting Chair of the General Committee 


 on Democracy, Human Rights and Humanitarian Questions during 


 the Annual Session, and she was subsequently elected to be 


 the committee chair for the coming year. Rep. Solis is the 


 first female Member of the U.S. Congress to hold a leadership 


 position in the OSCE PA.



 The OSCE PA Special Representative on Gender Issues, Tone 


 Tingsgaard (Sweden), hosted a working lunch to discuss gender 


 issues during which she presented her thoughts for future 


 action in the OSCE PA on these issues. The U.S. Delegation 


 was well represented at this event.



 The final Astana Declaration, attached, was adopted by the 


 participants at the Assembly's closing plenary and reflects 


 the initiatives and input of the U.S. Delegation. In line 


 with the theme for the session, it calls for greater 


 transparency in numerous fields, such as political or 


 historical archives and the use of private military 


 contractors, as well as within the OSCE itself. The 


 declaration also calls for concrete steps to address global 


 climate change, improve waste management and prepare for 


 potential nuclear accidents and natural disasters.



 Mr. Joao Soares, a parliamentarian from Portugal, was 


 elected to serve as OSCE PA President for the coming year. 


 Soares brings to the office extensive experience, having been 


 a member of the Portuguese parliament from 1987 to 1990 and 


 again since 2002, formerly a member of the European 


 Parliament and of the Bureau of the European Parliament, and 


 the mayor of Lisbon from 1995 to 2002. The delegates at the 


 Annual Session also re-elected Pia Christmas-Moeller of 


 Denmark, as a Vice president of the Assembly along with three 


 new Vice Presidents: Kassym-Jomart Tokayev of Kazakhstan; 


 Wolfgang Grossruck of Austria and Oleh Bilorus of Ukraine.



 The OSCE Chair-in-Office, Finnish Foreign Minister 


 Alexander Stubb, addressed the delegates during the closing 


 plenary. He urged movement from managing unresolved conflicts 


 in Georgia and Moldova to solving them. He also asked for 


 continued support for OSCE border-management training in 


 Central Asia as well as for bolstering cooperative security 


 in the Euro-Atlantic region.



 While the Delegation's work focused heavily on OSCE PA 


 matters, the venue presented an opportunity to advance U.S. 


 interests and express U.S. concerns with our Kazakhstani 


 hosts. The U.S. Delegation had meetings with President 


 Nursultan Nazarbayev, Prime Minister Karim Masimov and 


 Secretary of State Kanat Saudabayev as well as with prominent 


 Kazakh human rights activists and opposition leaders. Members 


 of the delegation also visited Beit Rachel, the largest 


 synagogue in Central Asia, and met with the chief rabbi and 


 the deputy imam from the Islamic community to discuss inter-


 faith tolerance and protection of religious freedom in 


 Kazakhstan, especially for religious minorities.



 The U.S. delegation held a press conference in Astana, 


 during which we conveyed our willingness to work with 


 Kazakhstan throughout its OSCE chairmanship in 2010. We 


 strongly urged, however, greater progress regarding human 


 rights and political reforms in keeping with the commitments 


 Kazakhstan made at the Madrid OSCE Ministerial in November 


 2007, where the decision on the 2010 chairmanship was made.



 Senator Cardin also used the visit to Kazakhstan as an 


 opportunity to visit nearby Pakistan. He was joined by fellow 


 Commissioners McIntyre and Aderholt as well as 


 Representatives Wamp and Sanchez. The delegation met with 


 President Pervez Musharraf, Prime Minister Syed Yousaf Raza 


 Gillani, and U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan Anne W. Patterson. 


 During the meetings, the delegation focused on U.S.-Pakistan 


 relations, regional security, as well as human rights and 


 democratic development.



 I hope this summary of the U.S. Delegation's activity is 


 useful to you, and let me thank you and your staff again for 


 making this trip possible. The Eighteenth Annual Session of 


 the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly will be held early next July 


 in Vilnius, Lithuania, and I hope we can count on your 


 continued support in ensuring that U.S. interests abroad are 


 advanced through active congressional participation in the 