# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `f74b16242010269125fd8bb2e2574fb1`
`Mr. DINGELL — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2764, the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008. While this is a vastly 
different package than the 11 stand-alone appropriations bills that the 
House passed earlier this year, it is a package that for the first time 
in over eight years focuses on the priorities of the American people.

Without a doubt the budgetary process is never easy. This year, 
however, the process has been exacerbated by the fact that this 
Administration has been unwilling to come to the negotiating table to 
hammer out the details of this legislation, instead barking orders at 
Congress--the people's representatives--from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. 
Furthermore, this process has been held up by the inability of the 
Senate to pass these bills as stand-alone measures. As a result, 
Congress has no choice but to consolidate the remaining appropriations 
bills in order to complete our budget work.

Like many of my colleagues, I had hoped that this Administration 
would have worked with Congress to find a compromise that would have 
reflected the domestic needs of our country and the priorities of our 
working families. Unfortunately, the budget proposal the Administration 
sent to Congress earlier this year proposed cuts to many important 
domestic programs including: Medical research grants at NIH; Grants for 
low-income schools; Vocational education programs in high schools and 
community colleges; Homeland Security Grants for police, firefighters 
and medical personnel; Renewable energy programs; and Community Health 
Centers.

Yet after proposing cuts to these vital programs, the President had 
the nerve to request another blank check for the war in Iraq.

The truth of the matter is our troops have the funding they need. 
Congress passed and the President signed a Defense Appropriations bill 
last month that contained more than $450 billion in funding for the 
military. Moreover, the House passed an Iraq supplemental last month 
that would provide $50 billion worth of funding for the war efforts in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. Unfortunately, that bill has been blocked by 
Republicans in the Senate because it contains important provisions that 
would require the President to begin to plan for the withdrawal of 
American troops from Iraq.

I would note that recently, the Congressional Budget Office has 
reported that costs related to the Iraq war could reach $2.4 trillion 
over the next decade, even if the number of troops is cut by half. 
Furthermore, we have seen more than a billion dollars gone unaccounted 
for in Iraq due to fraud and misuse on the part of contractors and poor 
accounting by our own government.

By threatening to veto any spending bill that does not give him a 
blank check in Iraq, it is the President who is playing politics--
playing politics with our service men and women and their families, and 
playing politics with critically important domestic programs.

The bill before us today is significantly better than what the 
President sent us at the beginning of this year. It does, as I 
mentioned earlier, focus on the priorities of the American people. For 
example, the bill invests in:

Medical Research: $607 million above the President's request to study 
diseases like Alzheimer's, cancer, Parkinson's and diabetes.

Healthcare Access: $1 billion above the President's request, making 
targeted increases to programs like Community Health Centers to provide 
280,000 more underinsured Americans with access to healthcare and High 
Risk Insurance Pools to help 200,000 more people afford health 
insurance.

Rural Healthcare: $147 million above the President's request to help 
1,200 small, rural hospitals.

K-12 Education: $767 million above the President's request with 
targeted increases to Title 1, Special Education, Teacher Quality 
Grants, After School Programs, and Head Start.

Student Aid: $1.7 billion above the President's request for Pell 
Grants and other student aid programs.

Vocational Education: $575 million above the President's request for 
technical training at high schools and community colleges.

State and Local Law Enforcement: $1.2 billion above the President's 
request, to help local communities across the country.

Homeland Security Grants: 41.8 billion above the President's request, 
recognizing that fighting terror must be a top priority.

Highway Infrastructure: Meets the guaranteed levels set in the 
authorization bill and provides a $1 billion initiative for our 
bridges.

Renewable Energy & Energy Efficiency: $486 million above the 
President's request for important investments in Solar Energy, Wind 
Energy, Biofuels, and Energy Efficiency, with a careful blend of new 
scientific investments and conservation efforts.

Chairman David Obey deserves our thanks for plowing through what many 
of us would consider unworkable circumstances and producing a bill that 
puts the American people first.

Now, it is unfortunate that Senate Republicans have chosen to give 
the President the blank check he requested in terms of war funding. I 
cannot, however, in good conscience, hold the rest of the federal 
government--and the above investments--hostage to Iraq funding. 
Instead, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the coming year 
to bring an end the President's failed Iraq policy.

Mr. Speaker, it is the duty of Congress to pass spending legislation 
each year, and it is a duty we take very seriously. I would like to 
take just a moment to remind President Bush that Congress is a co-equal 
branch of government. Our founding fathers intended that no one branch 
should set the course for our country, and in fact compromise has long 
been one of the hallmarks of our government. It is time that the 
Administration recognizes that a seat at the negotiating table can 
accomplish much more than the wave of the veto pen.