---
---

# VETERANS' MENTAL HEALTH AND OTHER CARE IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2008
## `f7530b1c2b6f7bb21d87394a730386ce`
`Mr. FILNER — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I want to say to Congressman Buyer, the ranking 
member, and really all the Members on both the Republican and Democrat 
side of this committee, we have had some ups and downs in this year, 
but these two bills that we are doing today are great bills. I think 
we, and I say ''we'' meaning all of us, have a great deal to be proud 
of. We are going to touch millions of veterans with these bills, 
millions, and their families, and we are doing it on behalf of people 
that we know deserve no less.

We have traveled around the country. We have met thousands of 
veterans in different States. I think both of us get more and more 
impressed with both the newer veterans and the older veterans and what 
they have accomplished and how they have carried out their lives. So we 
are very proud to have worked together to produce these bills.






Joint Explanatory Statement For S. 2162, as Amended



Veterans' Mental Health and Other Care Improvements Act of 2008


The ''Veterans' Mental Health and Other Care Improvements Act of 
2008'' reflects a compromise agreement that the Senate and House of 
Representatives' Committees on Veterans' Affairs reached on certain 
provisions of a number of bills considered by the House and Senate 
during the 110th Congress, including: S. 2162, to improve the treatment 
and services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs to veterans 
with post-traumatic stress disorder and substance use disorders, and 
for other purposes, passed by the Senate on June 3, 2008 [hereinafter, 
''Senate Bill'']; H.R. 5554, to expand and improve health care services 
available to veterans from the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
substance use disorders, and for other purposes, passed by the House on 
May 20, 2008 [hereinafter, ''House Bill'']; S. 1233, to provide and 
enhance intervention, rehabilitative treatment, and services to 
veterans with traumatic brain injury, and for other purposes, placed on 
the Senate calendar on August 29, 2007.

H.R. 1527, to conduct a pilot program to permit certain highly rural 
veterans enrolled in the health system of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs to receive covered health services through providers other than 
those of the Department, passed by the House on September 10, 2008; 
H.R. 2623, to prohibit the collection of copayments for all hospice 
care furnished by the Department of Veterans Affairs, passed by the 
House on July 30, 2007; H.R. 2818, to provide for the establishment of 
epilepsy centers of excellence in the Veterans Health Administration of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, passed by the House on June 24, 
2008; H.R. 2874, to make certain improvements in the provision of 
health care to veterans, and for other purposes, passed by the House on 
July 30, 2007; S. 2969, to enhance the capacity of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs to recruit and retain nurses and other critical health 
care professionals, and for other purposes, placed on the Senate 
calendar on September 18, 2008.

H.R. 3819, to reimburse veterans receiving emergency treatment in 
non-Department of Veterans Affairs facilities for such treatment until 
such veterans are transferred to Department facilities, and for other 
purposes, passed by the House on May 21, 2008; H.R. 4264, to name the 
Department of Veterans Affairs spinal cord injury center in Tampa, 
Florida, as the ''Michael Bilirakis Department of Veterans Affairs 
Spinal Cord Injury Center, passed by the House on June 26, 2008; H.R. 
5729, to provide comprehensive health care to children of Vietnam 
veterans born with Spina Bifida, and for other purposes, passed by the 
House on May 20, 2008; H.R. 6445, to prohibit the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs from collecting certain copayments from veterans who are 
catastrophically disabled, and for other purposes, passed by the House 
on July 30, 2008; H.R. 6832, to authorize major medical facility 
projects and major medical facility leases for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2009, to extend certain authorities of 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes, passed by 
the House on September 11, 2008; S. 2969, to enhance the capacity of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs to recruit and retain nurses and 
other critical health care professionals and for other purposes, which 
was placed on the Senate legislative calendar on September 18, 2008.

The House and Senate Committees on Veterans' Affairs have prepared 
the following explanation of the compromise bill, S. 2162 (hereinafter 
referred to as the ''Compromise Agreement''). Differences between the 
provisions contained in the Compromise Agreement and the related 
provisions in the bills listed above are noted in this document, except 
for clerical corrections and conforming changes made necessary by the 
Compromise Agreement, and minor drafting, technical, and clarifying 
changes.





Title I--Substance Use Disorders and Mental Health Care

Tribute to Justin Bailey (sec. 101)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 306) to specify that this 
title is enacted in tribute to Justin Bailey, who, after returning to 
the United States from service as member of the Armed Forces in 
Operation Iraqi Freedom, died in a domiciliary facility of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs while receiving care for post-traumatic 
stress disorder and a substance use disorder.

Section 6 of the House bill contained the identical provision.



The Compromise Agreement contains this provision.

Findings on Substance Use Disorders and Mental Health (sec. 102)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 301) that would express 
the sense of the Congress that:

(1) More than 1,500,000 members of the Armed Forces have been 
deployed in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. The 
2005 Department of Defense Survey of Health Related Behaviors Among 
Active Duty Personnel reports that 23 percent of members of the Armed 
Forces on active duty acknowledge a significant problem with alcohol 
use, with similar rates of acknowledged problems with alcohol use among 
members of the National Guard.

(2) The effects of substance abuse are wide ranging, including 
significantly increased risk of suicide, exacerbation of mental and 
physical health disorders, breakdown of family support, and increased 
risk of unemployment and homelessness.

(3) While veterans suffering from mental health conditions, chronic 
physical illness, and poly trauma may be at increased risk for 
development of a substance use disorder, treatment for these veterans 
is complicated by the need to address adequately the physical and 
mental symptoms associated with these conditions through appropriate 
medical intervention.

(4) While the Veterans Health Administration has dramatically 
increased health services for veterans from 1996 through 2006, the 
number of veterans receiving specialized substance abuse treatment 
services decreased 18 percent during that time. No comparable decrease 
in the national rate of substance abuse has been observed during that 
time.

(5) While some facilities of the Veterans Health Administration 
provide exemplary substance use disorder treatment services, the 
availability of such treatment services throughout the health care 
system of the Veterans Health Administration is inconsistent.

(6) According to the Government Accountability Office, the Department 
of Veterans Affairs significantly reduced its substance use disorder 
treatment and rehabilitation services between 1996 and 2006, and has 
made little progress since in restoring these services to their pre-
1996 levels.

The House bill contained no similar provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision but modifies 
finding (6) to include the year of the Government Accountability report 
and cites the National Mental Health Program Monitoring System report.

Expansion of Substance Use Disorder Treatment Services Provided by the 


Department of Veterans Affairs (sec. 103)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 302) that would require 
that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs ensure the provision of services 
and treatment to each veteran enrolled in the health care system of the 
Department who is in need of services and treatments for a substance 
use disorder, and the bill included a specific list of services. The 
Senate bill would also authorize that the services and treatments may 
be provided to a veteran: (1) at Department of Veterans Affairs medical 
centers or clinics; (2) by referral to other facilities of the 
Department that are accessible to such veteran; or (3) by contract or 
fee- for-service payments with community-based organizations for the 
provision of such services and treatments.

The House bill contained a similar provision (sec. 2) that would 
require the Secretary to provide a full continuum of care for substance 
use disorders to veterans in need of such care and included a specific 
list of services, including three services not included in the Senate 
bill: marital and family counseling, screening for substance use 
disorders, and coordination with groups providing peer to peer 
counseling. The House bill (sec. 3) would also require the Secretary to 
ensure that the amounts made available for care, treatment, and 
services are allocated evenly throughout the system, including an 
annual reporting requirement.

The Compromise Agreement includes the listing of substance use 
disorder services included in both the Senate and House bills, and 
follows the Senate bill with respect to the locations of where services 
would be provided. The Compromise Agreement follows the House bill with 
respect to ensuring the equitable distribution of resources for 
substance abuse services but does not include the annual reporting 
requirement.

Care for Veterans with Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders (sec. 


104)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 303) that would ensure 
that if the Secretary of Veterans Affairs provides a veteran inpatient 
or outpatient care for a substance use disorder and a comorbid mental 
health disorder, that the treatment for such disorders be provided 
concurrently: (1) through a service provided by a clinician or health 
professional who has training and expertise in treatment of substance 
use disorders and mental health disorders; (2) by separate substance 
use disorder and mental health disorder treatment services when there 
is appropriate coordination, collaboration, and care management between 
such treatment services; or (3) by a team of clinicians with 
appropriate expertise.

The House bill contained no similar provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.

Pilot Program for Internet-based Substance Use Disorder Treatment for 


Veterans of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom 


(sec. 105)


The House bill contained a provision (sec. 4) that would express the 
sense of the Congress that:

(1) Stigma associated with seeking treatment for mental health 
disorders has been demonstrated to prevent some veterans from seeking 
such treatment at a medical facility operated by the Department of 
Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs.

(2) There is a significant incidence among veterans of post-
deployment mental health problems, especially among members of a 
reserve component who return as veterans to civilian life.

(3) Computer-based self-guided training has been demonstrated to be 
an effective strategy for supplementing the care of psychological 
conditions.

(4) Younger veterans, especially those who served in Operation 
Enduring Freedom or Operation Iraqi Freedom, are comfortable with and 
proficient at computer-based technology.

(5) Veterans living in rural areas find access to treatment for 
substance use disorder limited.

(6) Self-assessment and treatment options for substance use disorders 
through an Internet website may reduce stigma and provides additional 
access for individuals seeking care and treatment for such disorders.

This provision would also require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
to carry out a pilot program to test the feasibility and advisability 
of providing veterans who seek treatment for substance use disorders 
access to a computer-based self-assessment, education, and specified 
treatment program through a secure Internet website operated by the 
Secretary.

The Senate bill contained no similar provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.

Report on Residential Mental Health Care Facilities of the Veterans 


Health Administration (sec. 106)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 305) that would require 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, acting through the Office of Mental 
Health Services of the Department of Veterans Affairs, not later than 
six months after the date of the enactment of this Act, conduct a 
review of all residential mental health care facilities, including 
domiciliary facilities, of the Veterans Health Administration; and not 
later than two years after the date of the completion of the first 
review conduct a follow-up review of such facilities to evaluate any 
improvements made or problems remaining since the first review was 
completed. Not later than 90 days after the completion of the first 
review, the Secretary would be required to submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report on such review.

The House bill (sec. 5) contained a similar provision, except there 
was no provision for a two-year follow-up review, and the six-month 
review would be carried out by the Office of the Medical Inspector.

The Compromise Agreement includes the Senate provision which 
specifies the two-year follow-up review, but would have the Inspector 
General carry out the reviews.

Pilot Program on Peer Outreach and Support for Veterans and Use of 


Community Mental Health Centers and Indian Health Service 


Facilities (sec. 107)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 401) that would require 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot program to 
assess the feasibility and advisability of providing the following to 
veterans of OIF/OEF in at least two Veterans Integrated Service 
Networks: 1) peer outreach services; 2) peer support services provided 
by licensed providers of peer support services or veterans who have 
personal experience with mental illness; 3) readjustment counseling 
services; and other mental health services. Services would be provided 
through community mental health centers or other entities under 
contracts or other agreements and through the Indian Health Service 
pursuant to a memorandum of understanding entered into by the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

Section 6 of H.R. 2874 required the Secretary to carry out a program 
to provide peer outreach services, peer support services, and 
readjustment and mental health services to covered veterans. This 
provision was not a pilot program and did not provide for the means to 
collaborate with the Indian Health Service.

The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision with an 
amendment that would authorize at least three pilot sites.












Title II--Mental Health Research

Research Program on Comorbid Post-traumatic Stress Disorder and 


Substance Use Disorders (sec. 201)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 501) that would require 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a program of research 
into comorbid post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and substance use 
disorder. This research program shall be carried out by the National 
Center for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. In carrying out the program, 
the Center shall: 1) develop protocols and goals with respect to 
research under the program; and 2) coordinate research, data 
collection, and data dissemination under the program.

The House bill contained no similar provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.

Extension of Authorization for Special Committee on Post-Traumatic 


Stress Disorder (sec. 202)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 502) that would modify 
section 110(e)(2) of the Veterans' Health Care Act of 1984, P.L. 98-
528, to extend the reporting requirement for the Special Committee on 
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Currently, the reporting requirement is 
set to expire in 2008; this provision would extend it through 2012.

Section 209 of H.R. 6832 contained an identical provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the provision.







 Title III--Assistance for Families of Veterans

Clarification of Authority of Secretary of Veterans Affairs to Provide 


Mental Health Services to Families of Veterans (sec. 301)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 601) that would amend 
section 1701(5)(B) of title 38, United States Code, to clarify the 
authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide mental health 
services to families of veterans.

Section 3 of H.R. 6445 contained a provision that would modify 
section 1782(b) of title 38 so as to eliminate the requirement that 
family support services be initiated during the veteran's 
hospitalization and deemed essential to permit the veteran's discharge.

The Compromise Agreement follows the House bill with respect to the 
provision eliminating the need for services to be initiated during a 
veteran's hospitalization and essential to the veteran's discharge, but 
follows the Senate bill with respect to the provision to clarify the 
authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide mental health 
services to families.

Pilot Program on Provision of Readjustment and Transition Assistance to 


Veterans and Their Families in Cooperation with Vet Centers (sec. 


302)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 402) that would establish 
a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of providing 
additional readjustment and transition assistance to veterans and their 
families in cooperation with Readjustment Counseling Centers. The pilot 
would be similar to family assistance programs previously conducted at 
ten Army facilities around the country.

The House bill contained no similar provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision with an 
amendment to begin the pilot program no later than 180 days after the 
enactment of the Act.











 Title IV--Health Care Matters

Veterans Beneficiary Travel Program (sec. 401)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 101) that would direct 
the Secretary to reimburse qualifying veterans at the rate authorized 
for Government employees under section 5707(b) of title 5. The Senate 
provision would also strike a provision that allows the Secretary to 
raise or lower the deductible for reimbursements in proportion to a 
change in the mileage rate. Finally, the Senate provision would 
reinstate the amount of the deductible for the beneficiary travel 
reimbursement program to the amount in effect prior to the Secretary's 
February 1, 2008, decision on beneficiary travel.

The House bill contained no similar provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.

Mandatory Reimbursement of Veterans Receiving Emergency Treatment in 


Non-Department of Veterans Affairs Facilities until Transfer to 


Department Facilities (sec. 402)


The Senate bill contained a provision that would amend section 1725 
of title 38 in subsections (a)(1) and (f)(1). Subsection (a)(1) would 
be amended by replacing 'may reimburse' with 'shall reimburse.' This 
change would make reimbursement for emergency care received at non-VA 
facilities mandatory for eligible veterans, rather than at the 
discretion of the Secretary. Subsection (f)(1) would be amended to 
provide greater specificity regarding the termination of VA's 
obligation to reimburse. The Senate bill would also amend section 1728 
of title 38 so as to make that section, which relates to reimbursement 
for the emergency treatment of service-connected conditions, consistent 
with section 1725, as amended. Thus, reimbursement would also be made 
mandatory under Section 1728. The existing criteria, defining veteran 
eligibility for reimbursement for emergency care services, would be 
carried over in the revised statutory language. In addition, the Senate 
bill would further amend section 1728 so as to strike the phrase 'care 
and services' in current subsection (b) of section 1728, and replace 
that phrase with 'emergency treatment.' This proposed change is 
designed to promote consistency between sections 1725 and 1728.

H.R. 3819 contained similar provisions.

The Compromise Agreement contains these provisions.

Pilot Program of Enhanced Contract Care Authority for Health Care Needs 


of Veterans in Highly Rural Areas (sec. 403)


H.R. 1527 (sec. 2) would require the Secretary to conduct a pilot 
program which permits highly rural veterans who are enrolled in the 
system of patient enrollment established under section 1705(a) of title 
38, and who reside in Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISNs) 1, 
15, 18, and 19, to elect to receive covered health services for which 
such veterans are eligible, through a non-Department health care 
provider.

The Senate bill contained no similar provision.

The Compromise Agreement follows the House bill, with an amendment 
that specifies that the pilot program will be carried out in 5 VISNs, 
four of which shall include at least three highly rural counties (as 
determined by the Secretary based upon the most recent census data), 
and one of which shall include one highly rural county. All VISNs 
selected must include an area within the borders of at least four 
states, and not be already participating in Project HERO. Eligibility 
for participation in the pilot program would be limited to those 
veterans already enrolled in the VA health care system at the time of 
commencement of the program, as well as OIF/OEF veterans who are 
eligible for VA health care under section 1710(e)(3)(C) of title 38.

Epilepsy Centers of Excellence (sec. 404)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 103) that would require 
that the Secretary, upon the recommendation of the Under Secretary for 
Health, designate not less than six Department health care facilities 
as locations for epilepsy centers of excellence.

H.R. 2818 (sec. 2) would require the Secretary to designate an 
epilepsy center of excellence at each of the 5 centers designated under 
section 7327 of title 38 (Centers for research, education, and clinical 
activities on complex multi-trauma associated with combat injuries).

The Compromise Agreement specifies that the Secretary shall designate 
at least four but not more than six Department health care facilities 
as locations for epilepsy centers of excellence. Not less than two of 
these centers shall be collocated with centers designated under 7327 of 
title 38.

Establishment of Qualifications for Peer Specialist Appointees (sec. 


405)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 104) that would amend 
section 7402(b) of title 38 so as to define qualifications for peer 
specialist positions employed by the Veterans Health Administration. 
Specifically, in order to be eligible to be appointed to a peer 
specialist position, a person must be a veteran who has recovered or is 
recovering from a mental health condition; and be certified by a not-
for-profit entity engaged in peer specialist training by having met 
such criteria as the Secretary shall establish for a peer specialist 
position; or a State by having satisfied relevant State requirements 
for a peer specialist position. The Senate bill would also amend 
section 7402 of title 38 so as to add a new subsection providing 
authority for the Secretary to enter into contracts with not-for-profit 
entities to provide peer specialist training to veterans and 
certification for veterans.

The House bill contained no similar provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.

Establishment of Consolidated Patient Accounting Centers (sec. 406)


Section 5 of H.R. 6445 contained a provision that would amend chapter 
17 of title 38 to insert a new section mandating that not later than 5 
years after the date of enactment of this bill, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall establish not more than seven consolidated 
patient accounting centers for conducting industry-modeled regionalized 
billing and collection activities of the Department.

The Senate bill contained no comparable provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.







Repeal of Limitation on Authority to Conduct Widespread HIV Testing 

Program (sec. 407)Section 217 of S. 2969 would repeal section 124 of 
Public Law 100-322, which permits VA to test a patient for HIV 
infection only if the veteran receives pre-test counseling and provides 
written informed consent for such testing. Eliminating this section 
from the law would bring VA's statutory HIV testing requirements in 
line with current guidelines issued by the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention.

Section 6 of H.R. 6445 contained an identical provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the provision.

Provision of Comprehensive Health Care by Secretary of Veterans Affairs 


to Children of Vietnam Veterans Born with Spina Bifida (sec. 408)


H.R. 5729 would amend section 1803(a) of title 38 so as to expand the 
existing VA Spina Bifida Health Care Program and provide a 
comprehensive health benefit to beneficiaries.

The Senate bill contained no comparable provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.

Exemption from Copayment Requirement for Veterans Receiving Hospice 


Care (sec. 409)


Section 309 of S. 1233 would amend section 1710 of title 38 so as to 
exempt hospice care provided in all settings from the copayment 
requirement for VA long-term care. Under current law, only hospice care 
provided in a VA nursing home is exempted from copayment.


H.R. 2623 contained a similar provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the provision.














 Title V--Pain Care

Comprehensive Policy on Pain Management (sec. 501)


The Senate bill contained a provision (sec. 201) that would require 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop and implement a 
comprehensive policy on the management of pain experienced by veterans 
enrolled for VA health care services no later than October 1, 2008.

The policy would be required to cover the following: the Department-
wide management of acute and chronic pain experienced by veterans; the 
standard of care for pain management to be used throughout the 
Department; the consistent application of pain assessments to be used 
throughout the Department; the assurance of prompt and appropriate pain 
care treatment and management by the Department, system-wide, when 
medically necessary; Department programs of research related to acute 
and chronic pain suffered by veterans, including pain attributable to 
central and peripheral nervous system damage characteristic of injuries 
incurred in modern warfare; Department programs of pain care education 
and training for health care personnel of the Department; and 
Department programs of patient education for veterans suffering from 
acute or chronic pain and their families.

Section 4 of H.R. 6445 contained identical provisions.

The Compromise Agreement contains the provisions, but would require 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop and implement a 
comprehensive policy on pain management no later than October 1, 2009.










Title VI--Homeless Veterans Matters

Increase in Authorization of Appropriations for the Homeless Grant and 


Per Diem Program (sec. 601)


Section 506 of S. 2969 would amend section 2013 of title 38, to 
increase the authorization of appropriations for the Homeless Grant and 
Per Diem Program from $130 million to $200 million.

The House bill contained no comparable provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision but changes 
the authorization amount to $150 million.

Expansion and Extension of Authority for Program of Referral and 


Counseling Services for At-risk Veterans Transitioning from Certain 


Institutions (sec. 602)


Section 403 of S. 1233 would amend section 2023 of title 38 so as to 
extend and expand the authority for a program to aid incarcerated 
veterans in their transition back to civilian life. The program would 
be extended until September 30, 2011, and would be expanded from six to 
twelve sites.

Section 7 of H.R. 2874 contained identical provisions.

The Compromise Agreement contains the provision, but would extend the 
program until September 30, 2012.

Permanent Authority for Domiciliary Services for Homeless Veterans and 


Enhancement of Capacity of Domiciliary Care Programs for Female 


Veterans (sec. 603)


Section 405 of S. 1233 would amend section 2043 of title 38 to make 
permanent an existing authority to expand domiciliary care for homeless 
women veterans.

Section 8 of H.R. 2874 contained identical provisions.

The Compromise Agreement contains the provisions.

Financial Assistance for Supportive Services for Very-low Income 


Veteran Families in Permanent Housing (sec. 604)


Section 406 of S. 1233 would amend title 38 so as to add a new 
section 2044, relating to supportive services for very low-income 
veterans and their families occupying permanent housing. Proposed new 
section 2044 would direct VA to provide grants to eligible entities to 
provide and coordinate the provision of a comprehensive range of 
supportive services for very low-income veteran families occupying 
permanent housing, including those transitioning from homelessness to 
such housing.

Those families may be occupying permanent housing, moving into 
permanent housing within 90 days, or moving from one permanent 
residence to another to better suit their needs. Entities eligible to 
receive grants under this provision are public or private non-profit 
organizations which have demonstrated the capacity and experience 
necessary to deliver the services outlined in the proposed new section. 
Under the provisions of the proposed new section 2044, grants would be 
provided for a wide range of services, so as to give families a broad 
set of tools to maintain a permanent residence. To this end, providers 
could receive grants to furnish outreach, case management, assistance 
in obtaining and coordinating VA benefits, and assistance in obtaining 
and coordinating other public benefits provided by federal, state, or 
local agencies or organizations.

Section 9 of H.R. 2874 contained similar provisions but provided a 
more expansive list of supportive services, and authorized for 
appropriations a different funding level.

The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.

Title VII--Authorization of Medical Facility Projects and Major Medical 














Facility Leases

Authorization for Fiscal Year 2009 Major Medical Facility Projects 


(sec. 701)


Section 701 of S. 2969 would authorize:

 $54,000,000 to construct a facility to replace a seismically unsafe 
acute psychiatric inpatient building in Palo Alto, California.

 $131,800,000 for an outpatient clinic in Lee County, Florida.

 $225,900,000 to make seismic corrections at a VA Medical Center in 
San Juan, Puerto Rico.

 $66,000,000 to construct a state-of-the-art polytrauma health care 
and rehabilitation center in San Antonio, Texas.

Section 101 of H.R. 6832 contained the same provisions, except for 
Lee County, Florida. Instead, H.R. 6832 authorizes the Lee County 
project under a different section.

The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.

Modification of Authorization Amounts for Certain Major Medical 


Facility Construction Projects Previously Authorized (sec. 702)


Section 702 of S. 2969 would modify previous authorizations by 
providing $625,000,000 for restoration, new construction, or 
replacement of the medical care facility for the VA Medical Center at 
New Orleans, Louisiana.

Section 102 of H.R. 6832 contained the same provisions and the 
following additional provisions:

 $769,200,000 for the replacement of the VA Medical Center at Denver, 
Colorado.

 $131,800,000 for an outpatient clinic in Lee County, Florida.

 $136,700,000 to correct patient privacy deficiencies at the VA 
Medical Center in Gainesville, Florida.

 $600,400,000 to build a new VA Medical Center in Las Vegas, Nevada.

 $656,800,000 to build a new medical center in Orlando, Florida.

 $295,600,000 to consolidate the campuses at the University Drive and 
H. John Heinz III Divisions in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision with an 
amendment to provide $568,000,000 for the replacement of the VA Medical 
Center at Denver, Colorado.

Authorization of Fiscal Year 2009 Major Medical Facility Leases (sec. 


703)


Section 703 of S. 2969 would authorize fiscal year 2009 major medical 
facility leases as follows:

 $4,326,000 for an outpatient clinic in Brandon, Florida.

 $10,300,000 for a community-based outpatient clinic in Colorado 
Springs, Colorado.

 $5,826,000 for an outpatient clinic in Eugene, Oregon.

 $5,891,000 to expand an outpatient clinic in Green Bay, Wisconsin.

 $3,731,000 for an outpatient clinic in Greenville, South Carolina.



 $2,212,000 for a community-based outpatient clinic in Mansfield, 
Ohio.

 $6,276,000 for a satellite outpatient clinic in Mayaguez, Puerto 
Rico.

 $5,106,000 for a community-based outpatient clinic in Southeast 
Phoenix, Mesa, Arizona.

 $8,636,000 for interim research space in Palo Alto, California.

 $3,168,000 to expand a community-based outpatient clinic in 
Savannah, Georgia.

 $2,295,000 for a community-based outpatient clinic in Northwest 
Phoenix, Sun City, Arizona.

 $8,652,000 for a primary care annex in Tampa, Florida.

Section 102 of H.R. 6832 included the same provisions, except that it 
provided $3,995,000 for Colorado Springs.

The Compromise Agreement includes the Senate provisions.

Authorization of Appropriations (sec. 704)


Section 704 of S. 2969 would authorize for appropriations:

 $477,700,000 for the aforementioned list of major medical facility 
projects authorized for fiscal year 2009.

 $625,000,000 for the aforementioned list of major medical facility 
construction projects previously authorized.

 $66,419,000 for the aforementioned list of major facility leases 
authorized for fiscal year 2009.

S. 2969 also identified funding sources which may be used to carry 
out major medical facility projects authorized for fiscal year 2009 and 
for those projects previously authorized.

Section 105 of H.R. 6832 would authorize for appropriations:

 $345,900,000 for the aforementioned list of major medical facility 
projects authorized for fiscal year 2009.

 $1,694,295,000 for the aforementioned list of major medical facility 
construction projects previously authorized.

 $54,475,000 for the aforementioned list of major facility leases 
authorized for fiscal year 2009.

The Compromise Agreement includes the House provision, with 
amendments to provide $1,493,495,000 for major facility construction 
projects previously authorized and $70,019,000 for major facility 
leases authorized for fiscal year 2009. The Agreement also includes the 
provision in S. 2969 on allowable funding sources to carry out major 
medical facility projects.

Increase in Threshold for Major Medical Facility Leases Requiring 


Congressional Approval (sec. 705)


Section 705 of S. 2969 would increase the threshold for major medical 
facility leases requiring Congressional approval from $600,000 to 
$1,000,000.

H.R. 6832 contained no comparable provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.

Conveyance of Certain Non-Federal Land by City of Aurora, Colorado, to 


Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Construction of Veterans Medical 


Facility (sec. 706)


Section 706 of S. 2969 would allow the city of Aurora to donate non-
Federal land for use by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs no later than 
60 days after the enactment of this section.

H.R. 6832 contained no comparable provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the Senate provision.

Report on facilities administration (sec. 707)


Section 106 of H.R. 6832 would require the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to submit a report on facilities administration no later than 
60 days after the date of the enactment of this section.

S. 2969 contained no comparable provision

The Compromise Agreement includes the House provision.

Annual report on outpatient clinics (sec. 708)


Section 107 of H.R. 6832 would require an annual report on outpatient 
clinics no later than the date on which the budget for the next fiscal 
year is submitted to the Congress under section 1105 of title 31.

S. 2969 contained no comparable provision.

The Compromise Agreement includes the House provision.

Name of Department of Veterans Affairs Spinal Cord Injury Center, 


Tampa, Florida (sec. 709)


H.R. 4264 would name the VA spinal cord injury center in Tampa 
Florida, ''Michael Bilirakis Department of Veterans Affairs Spinal Cord 
Injury Center.''

S. 2969 contained no comparable provision.

The Compromise Agreement includes the House provision.








Title VIII--Extension of Certain Authorities

Repeal of Sunset on Inclusion of Non-institutional Extended Care 


Services in Definition of Medical Services (sec. 801)


Section 201 of S. 2969 would amend section 1701 of title 38 to repeal 
the December 31, 2008, sunset on the inclusion of non-institutional 
extended care services in the definition of medical services.

Sec. 201 of H.R. 6832 contained an identical provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the provision.

Extension of Recovery Audit Authority (sec. 802)


Section 202 of S. 2969 would amend section 1703(d)(4) of title 38 to 
extend the recovery audit authority for fee-basis contracts and other 
medical services contracts in non-VA facilities from September 30, 
2008, to September 30, 2013.

Sec. 202 of H.R. 6832 contained an identical provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the provision.

Permanent Authority for Provision of Hospital Care, Medical Services, 


and Nursing Home Care to Veterans who Participated in Certain 


Chemical and Biological Testing Conducted by the Department of 


Defense (sec. 803)


Section 203 of S. 2969 would amend subsection (e)(3) of section 1710 
of title 38 to provide permanent authority for the provision of 
hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care to veterans who 
participated in certain chemical and biological testing conducted by 
the Department of Defense.

Section 203 of H.R. 6832 contained an identical provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the provision.

Extension of Expiring Collections Authorities (sec. 804)


S. 2969 contained no comparable provision.

Section 204 of H.R. 6832 would extend the expiring collections 
authorities for the following: a) amend section 1710(f)(2)(B) of title 
38 to extend health care copayments from September 30, 2008, under 
current law, to September 30, 2010; and b) amend section 1729 (a)(2)(E) 
of title 38 to extend the medical care cost recovery from October 1, 
2008, to October 1, 2010.

The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.

Extension of Nursing Home Care (sec. 805)


Section 202 of S. 2969 would amend 1710A(d) of title 38 to provide 
nursing home care to veterans with service-connected disability, which 
expires on December 31, 2008, to December 31, 2013.

Section 205 of H.R. 6832 contained an identical provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the provision.

Permanent Authority to Establish Research Corporations (sec. 806)


Section 607 of S. 2969 would strike section 7368 of title 38 to 
provide permanent authority to establish research corporations

Section 207 of H.R. 6832 contained an identical provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the provision.

Extension of Requirement to Submit Annual Report on the Committee on 


Care of Severely Chronically Mentally Ill Veterans (sec. 807)


Section 210 of H.R. 6832 would amend section 7321(d)(2) of title 38 
to extend the requirement to submit an annual report on the committee 
on care of severely chronically mentally ill veterans through 2012.

S. 2969 contained no comparable provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.

Permanent Requirement for Biannual Report on Women's Advisory Committee 


(sec. 808)


Section 211 of H.R. 6832 would amend section 542(c)(1) of title 38 to 
provide for a permanent requirement for a biannual report by the 
women's advisory committee on the needs of women veterans including 
compensation, health care, rehabilitation, outreach, and other benefits 
and programs administered by the VA.

S. 2969 contained no comparable provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.

Extension of Pilot Program on Improvement of Caregiver Assistance 


Services (sec. 809)


Section 222 of S. 2969 would extend the pilot program on improvement 
of caregiver assistance services for a three-year period through fiscal 
year 2009.

H.R. 6832 contained no comparable provision.

The Compromise Agreement includes the Senate provision.













Title IX--Other Matters

Technical Amendments (sec. 901)


Section 303 of H.R. 6832 would provide for technical amendments for 
the following sections of title 38: 1712A; 2065(b)(3)(C); 4110(c)(1); 
7458(b)(2); 8117(a)(1); 1708(d); 7314(f); 7320(j)(2); 7325(i)(2); and 
7328(i)(2). It also would provide for technical amendments to the table 
of sections at the beginning of chapter 36 and chapter 51, as well as 
amend section 807(e) of the Veterans Benefits, Health Care, and 
Information Technology Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-461) to replace the 
phrase 'Medical Care' with 'Medical Facilities.'



S. 2969 contained no comparable provision.

The Compromise Agreement contains the House provision.