# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2011
## `f75d8a9548d7a88bdf510af47e0d83e9`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia â€” 28 July 2010`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Madam Chairman, I rise today to offer an 
amendment to ensure that no funds in this bill are used to construct or 
to renovate any facility in the United States to house Gitmo detainees.

Now, I realize that the majority will likely support my amendment 
given that the bill contains no funds for this purpose; but today, 
Madam Chairman, I want to challenge the Democratic majority to commit 
to adhering to an underlying principle, that being that it is wholly 
unnecessary to transfer the detainees and to close Guantanamo Bay, or 
Gitmo. No matter what appropriations bills we are considering--today, 
MILCON/VA, when we come back, DOD, Homeland Security, CJS--this fact 
still holds true.



We have spent hundreds of millions of dollars on the facilities at 
Gitmo, and the only reason we continue to debate its status is, quite 
honestly, Madam Chair, for public relations reasons.

As I witnessed most recently in April during my third site visit, the 
Gitmo detainees are treated with dignity and with respect. They are 
allowed access to their attorneys. They are allowed access to the 
International Committee of the Red Cross. They are provided with 
excellent medical care. As I am a physician Member, I know of what I 
speak. They are even allowed to live in a communal setting. If they 
were to consume everything provided to them on a daily basis, they 
would take in 5,500 calories per day. Indeed, most of them have gained 
anywhere from 15 to 25 pounds since they were originally detained. 
Their religious customs in all areas of their lives are respected, and 
they are provided with everything necessary to observe those customs.

If the world knew how we were actually treating these detainees, we 
would not be facing the prospect of spending hundreds of millions of 
dollars more--money that we don't have unless China will continue to 
lend it to us--to duplicate what we are already doing at Guantanamo 
Bay.

Madam Chair, transferring the detainees to the United States could 
eventually lead to their release on American soil, which would put our 
own citizens at risk. It could create significant immigration issues as 
aliens could become eligible for asylum or other forms of immigration-
related relief from removal. It most certainly would make any facility 
where they are held a terrorist target.

Not surprisingly, Madam Chair, the American people are overwhelmingly 
opposed to closing Gitmo. In a March 2010 CNN/Opinion Research 
Corporation poll, 60 percent of Americans expressed that the United 
States should continue to operate the detention center at Guantanamo 
Bay. They understand that the battlefield is not limited to our 
military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. They have recently 
witnessed two attempted attacks on our homeland in the skies over 
Detroit and, indeed, on the streets of New York City.

The American people know that the detainees located at Gitmo are not 
minor offenders by any means. These detainees include terrorist 
trainers, terrorist financiers, bomb makers, Osama bin Laden's 
bodyguards, terrorist recruiters, and would-be suicide bombers. Indeed, 
one of three adolescents originally detained is currently being tried 
by a military tribunal. Another, who was released after extensive 
efforts at rehabilitation, was subsequently killed on the battlefield 
after returning to the fight in Afghanistan.

Madam Chair, simply put, the American people believe that bringing 
Guantanamo Bay detainees to American soil for any purpose puts 
Americans at risk and is a national security threat. It is time this 
Congress listens to the collective voice of the American people and 
stops perpetrating the ''Washington knows best'' mindset.

I urge my colleagues to support my amendment on this bill--and on all 
other appropriations bills--to prevent the wholly unnecessary transfer 
of Gitmo detainees to American soil.

I reserve the balance of my time.