# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `f760bf7645de5e08f089894d62e6a19c`
`Mrs. BOXER — 24 September 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I am very pleased to bring to the floor 
today the conference report on H.R. 1495, the Water Resources 
Development Act of 2007. I think I can pick up on something Senator 
Alexander said about how divided we are in this country over this Iraq 
war. That is very clear. No one understands more than our Senator who 
is sitting in the chair and presiding today how we are divided. This is 
a different story, so we will take a little break out of our 
discussions about Iraq, and we will continue to work for bipartisanship 
in bringing this war to an honorable close.

At this time, we take a little break from that and turn toward 
something that is very important, which is building and rebuilding the 
water infrastructure of our Nation. Today is a day that is 7 years in 
the making.

I wish to start off by thanking my committee, all of the Members on 
my side of the aisle, and Senator Inhofe, our ranking member, and all 
his colleagues on the Republican side of the aisle. This is an unusual 
day. This is a day where we come forward united on a bill that will 
authorize the projects and policies of the Civil Works Program of the 
Army Corps of Engineers. I am so pleased we will vote today on final 
passage of that bill, and we will send it to the President.

I hope President Bush will reconsider his veto threat of this bill. I 
think colleagues will speak to how urgent this bill is. Imagine not 
having a water resources bill for 7 long years. That is too long to 
wait. If colleagues are concerned about the size of the bill--truly, if 
we had gone back the way we did it, every 2 years, it would be about 
the size that this bill is. As Senator Inhofe will say when he gets 
here--and, as you know, he and I don't agree on many environmental 
matters, but on public works matters we do agree--this is the first 
step in a long process--the authorizing step--and then comes the 
appropriations.

So every one of these projects that has gone through local 
governments all over this country--remember, for every one of these 
projects, there is a local match. These are projects that came from the 
bottom up, from our people who were saying to us we need help with 
flood control, with economic development, with dredging and we need 
help with wetlands restoration and in a number of areas involving the 
movement of water; and this country learned it when we watched after 
Hurricanes Rita and Katrina.

If we didn't know it then, we certainly know it now. So I say to this 
President, this bill is in line, in terms of the pricetag, with what we 
would have had if we had done this bill every 2 years. There is huge 
support for this bill. The votes in the House and the Senate are 
enormous, very one-sided.

So I hope, Mr. President, if you are listening or people in your 
office are listening, this is a respectful request to please join with 
us. We don't have to fight over every single thing. When it comes to 
the economy, the quality of life of our people, we should be united.

The House vote on this conference report was 381 to 40. We are hoping 
we will vote in that same fashion in the Senate.

Mr. President, how much time do I have, since I am Senator Reid's 
designee?