# None
## `f7640ac90c20cad91f02416cc685ca37`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. I think what is important, Mr. Ryan, is that we 
look at this thing for what it is, we look at it for what it is, and we 
let it be known, because you know, it takes us a little while, Mr. 
Ryan, to kind of get ourselves in the grove of really talking about the 
situation at hand.

The situation is, unfortunately, politics is overruling the 
governance of this country. It is almost like having someone at the 
dining room table, Mr. Ryan, that will continue to be disruptive when 
you are trying to have a decent conversation at the table.

Now, let me just tell you, last night about 11 p.m., it was very 
interesting to hear some of the debate, about, you know, it wasn't 
about the fact that there was a lack of border agents in this bill or 
ICE agents or there was a lack of homeland security equipment to follow 
up on all the 9/11 recommendations. That wasn't the argument. It wasn't 
an argument that we were being weak on something. The argument was all 
about, well, you know, somebody told me that this is the procedure and 
I disagree with the procedure. This is the homeland security bill, and 
as we started to go through the process of showing that Democrats can 
govern, it was, well, how can we disrupt that process?

Now, there are two things, Mr. Ryan, when you were talking that came 
to mind. The President has said, as a matter of fact, he hasn't said 
it, he sent a


letter to the Speaker saying that if you send me a bill that is over 
the budget that I sent you, then I am going to veto it. That means if 
we have any great ideas as it relates to doing something about 
healthcare in this country, the President is saying I don't want to 
hear it, because it is not in my budget. So shall it be written, so 
shall it be done.

I know the President is a little spoiled. I know he is accustomed to 
having certain things from the rubber-stamp Congress and all, and this 
is a new kind of thing for him and the administration. But I think it 
is important that we pay very, very, very close attention to what is 
happening as we start to think about democracy.

Now, to say you are going to veto something, that means two things. 
This is speculation, maybe. Our colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle are saying, let's slow this thing down a little bit, because we 
get all of these bills passed, which they will pass, and then it goes 
to the President and he starts to veto these bills. Then they call us 
on the next day, the President, ''come down to the White House,'' like 
they did when we passed the emergency supplemental, putting not only 
dates of redeployment, but also benchmarks, and if they weren't met, 
then redeployment would start automatically, and then had an end date 
as relates to making sure we get a majority of our combat troops out of 
Iraq. He called the Republicans down to the White House and they said, 
we are not going to override you. Okay.

Will they do that, or can they do that, Madam Speaker, when it comes 
down to education? Will they do that or can they do that when it comes 
down to homeland security? Will they do that, and when I say ''they,'' 
the Republicans, stand with the President when it comes down to the 
largest increase in the VA history? Can they stand with the President 
to withstand an override or to help him withstand an override? That is 
the problem.

So as we start to look at this issue and as we start to march down 
the road of responsibility and moving this country in a new direction, 
that is what the people voted for, and, guess what? Some Republicans 
were elected on new direction too. Folks wanted a change. They wanted 
to come to Washington and do what they needed to do. Independent 
thinkers.

It didn't look like that last night. It looked like, you know, well, 
the leadership has told us this is what we have to do, and if we have 
to be here and the sun is going to rise, that is fine. We will be here.

I voted against rising last night. It is already on the record. It 
was on the board. I voted against it, because I didn't believe that it 
was right to allow anyone to do what they were doing to the level that 
they were doing it. That is fine.

The Democratic side, we have done motions to adjourn, done motions to 
rise. But, guess what? One or two or three times, maybe. But when you 
start making history, and I haven't checked, maybe I need to check with 
the Clerk's Office or the Historian of the House, of double digit 
motions to rise in the middle of the night, that is something that we 
must question.

So, Mr. Ryan, as we start to focus on this issue of the true 
motivations of what is happening with these appropriations bills, I 
think the Six in 06 was a little bit too much for the Republican 
minority to swallow and go home and explain. And I think because there 
has been a date certain, again, Madam Speaker, it is interesting, we 
have a date certain to pass these bills off the floor, I think that 
they don't want to go home the 4th of July weekend and start to explain 
why they didn't vote for the largest increase in VA history, why they 
didn't vote for education and healthcare for our children, why they did 
not vote to protect our environment, why did they did not vote as it 
relates to the issues of transportation and infrastructure, and why, 
you know, Mr. Ryan, in closing, I take that from you, sir, why did we 
continue to stand with the President to withstand an override, because 
the President has said I am going to veto any bill that comes to me $1 
over the budget.

Now, here is the President that has sent us into a free-fall as it 
relates to deficits as far as the eye can see and record-breaking 
borrowing from foreign nations, higher than it has ever been in the 
history of the Republic. This is coming from this President. It is 
coming from the administration and the minority that was in the 
majority in the last Congress and the Congress before that of borrowing 
money in a rubber stamp fashion.

I just want to say that, because we have to figure out who is the pot 
calling the kettle black.

Mr. Ryan, we are brushing up on the last minute. I am going to yield 
back, and then you claim the time and we can go from there. You will 
have time.

Madam Speaker, I want to thank the leadership and also the Members 
for allowing me to serve, and I yield back the balance of my time.
