---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f7704fb0737e52549e8ddd0ef06325a7`
`Mr. LEVIN — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I yield myself 4 minutes.

There is a lot of disagreement about Iraq policy, how we got into the 
quagmire we are in there, the failure to plan properly, the disbanding 
of the Iraqi Army, the lack of a plan for the aftermath and a number of 
other issues which have been the subject of great debate.

There is a consensus on a number of issues. It is that consensus 
which drives the Levin-Reed amendment. There is a consensus that we 
have an important stake in a stable and independent Iraq. Everyone 
agrees on that. The opponents of this amendment like to suggest that 
somehow or other the proponents are not interested in a stable and 
independent Iraq. It is exactly the opposite. We are as interested in 
that as are the opponents.

The question is, Are we moving in that direction? Is the current 
policy working or do we need to change course? Do we need to find a way 
to put pressure on the Iraqi leaders to reach political settlement as 
the only hope of achieving an independent and stable Iraq?

That is not the proponents of this amendment who are saying a 
political settlement is not the only hope of ending the violence and 
achieving stability, that is not just the proponents, that is a 
consensus point. General Petraeus acknowledges that very openly. The 
Iraq Study Group says that. General Jones and his group say that.

There is no solution that ends the violence that is not based on a 
political coming together of the Iraqi leaders. They have to accept 
responsibility for their own country. They have to meet the benchmarks 
they themselves have set for themselves. They have missed those 
benchmarks and the timelines that were set out by themselves for those 
benchmarks.

We have to change course because we have been through now longer than 
we fought World War II, we have been there longer than we fought the 
Korean


war, we have spent half a trillion dollars or more, we have lost almost 
4,000 of our brightest and bravest men and women, seven times that many 
wounded, $10 billion a month.

We have to change the dynamic in Iraq, and that dynamic can only be 
changed when those Iraqi leaders realize the open-ended commitment is 
over. If we simply say, as the President says: Well, we will take 
another look in March, we will see what direction we are going to go in 
March, whether we are going to reduce our presence below the presurge 
level, but we will do that in March, that is a continuation of the 
message which this administration has been delivering to the Iraqi 
leaders year after year: We are going to be patient. We are going to be 
patient. The President has, a dozen times, said the American people 
need to be patient.

It is the opposite message that has a chance of working for the Iraqi 
leaders, that we are mighty inpatient here in America, with the 
dawdling of the political leaders in Iraq, who are the only ones who 
can achieve a political settlement. We cannot impose that on them, only 
they can reach it.

If they keep thinking we are not going to put the pressure on them, 
we are going to be their security blanket, we are going to protect them 
in the Green Zone, we are going to continue to lose our lives and 
squander our resources while they dawdle, they are making the major 
fundamental mistake which is going to keep the violence going.

We have to correct that. We have to change that. We have to force 
those leaders to accept the responsibility for their own country.

Now, the Iraq Study Group pointed to the relationship between putting 
pressure on the Iraqi leaders and having them reach an agreement. This 
is what the Iraq Study Group pointed out now almost a year ago: That an 
open-ended commitment of American forces would not provide the Iraqi 
Government the incentive it needs--the incentive it needs--to take the 
political actions that give Iraq the best chance of quelling sectarian 
violence.

I yield myself 1 additional minute. In the absence of such an 
incentive, the Iraq Study Group said, the Iraqi Government might 
continue to delay taking those actions.

That is the connection this amendment makes. What Levin-Reed says is: 
We are not going to withdraw precipitously, we are not going to totally 
withdraw, we have interests there that require us to keep some troops 
there. But we have the need to change that mission.

The President talks about the possibility, but he does not do it now. 
He does not say: we are announcing we are going to change our mission 
to a support mission, out of the middle of a civil war. We are going to 
change our mission to supporting our own people. We are going to change 
our mission to going after terrorists, a targeted counterterrorism 
mission, we are going to change our mission so that we are going to, 
yes, continue to support the Iraqi Army, to supply the Iraqi Army, but 
we are getting out of the middle of a sectarian battle for our sake and 
for the sake of the Iraqi people, to force those leaders to take 
responsibility for their own nation.

So it is not precipitous. We provide a reasonable timeline. We say 
the troops that need to be withdrawn as part of that transition to 
those new missions will be withdrawn within 9 months.

Mr. President, I yield the remainder of my time.

I yield the floor.