# WAR ON TERROR
## `f77489f9f8f38a7ecd42402b17c7d6e3`
`Mr. KYL — 9 July 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, most of the activity with regard to the 
terrorist plot in Great Britain occurred while we were on our breaks 
back home. I wanted to briefly discuss that today.

It seems to me that the terror plots in Great Britain must serve as a 
wake-up call to those of us in the United States who perhaps have been 
too complacent about the terrorist threat. These plots remind us of the 
dangers we really face each and every day, and we need to employ all 
possible intelligence and follow-up action in order to stop the attacks 
and roll back these terrorist groups.

The war against terrorists and on the radical ideologies that drive 
terrorism will go on and is going to go on for a long time, and attacks 
will not occur every day. So we have to remain resolute in the face of 
this long-term threat, never allowing temporary respites from violence 
to tempt us into thinking the terrorists have stopped recruiting and 
plotting.

Abroad we must confront the challenges not just of terrorist networks 
but of states like Iran and Syria that provide funds and equipment for 
the terrorists. At home we have to have adequate intelligence to find, 
monitor, and disrupt terrorist cells that could strike at any time. It 
requires vigilance and cooperation among many enforcement entities and, 
importantly, the support of the American people. Against this threat, 
to say ''out of sight, out of mind'' can have no place.

Now, the first point I would like to make today is that as the plot 
in Great Britain revealed, this is not about grievances. This is about 
ideology.

There are those at home who are members of what is called the Blame 
America First crowd, which was a term coined by my friend, the late 
Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick, who say the Islamists hate us because of 
what we do. They allegedly hate us because we don't do enough to fight 
poverty, because of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, because of Iraq, 
or because of the latest Danish cartoon, or whatever. Of course, this 
is nonsense.

The radical ideology that spawns this terrorism has nothing to do 
with such grievances or poverty. The perpetrators of the plots in Great 
Britain were doctors, not individuals radicalized by unemployment or 
poverty-stricken slums. These plots certainly were not the result of 
British policy. They unfolded on the very day that Gordon Brown, a 
critic of Britain's roles in the 2003 invasion of Iraq, took office. 
Nor did they have anything to do with American policy. From what we 
know of the individuals involved, it appears the motivation was the 
same as all of the other acts of terrorism in the name of militant 
Islam.

This radical doctrine had its roots in the early 20th century and 
gained momentum through the writings of radical Islamists such as 
Sayyid Qutb in the 1950s and 1960s, long before the Iraq war. It has 
everything to do with the hatred of our values, our freedoms, all that 
we stand for, and we see the hatred in attacks that go back several 
decades.

Review them: The 1979 takeover of our Embassy in Tehran; the 1983 
Hezbollah bombing of the Marine barracks in Beirut; the 1993 bombing of 
the World Trade Center; the 1996 bombing of Khobar Towers; the 1998 
Embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania; the 2000 attack on the USS 
Cole; September 11, 2001, and all of the attacks since then, including 
Beslan, Madrid, London, and elsewhere. In every case, the rationale was 
the same--advancement of the radical ideology of militant Islam; a 
perversion of the faith, to be sure, but based on their concept of the 
faith nonetheless.


The sheer evil of the acts and the perpetrators shocks our souls, 
especially because it is allegedly grounded in religion. People trained 
as doctors--those who are supposed to value and preserve life--were at 
the center of the plot in Great Britain to destroy innocent life.

We in the West, who believe in reason and rationality, have trouble 
comprehending the mentality of radical Islam and those who subscribe to 
it. But we need to understand it, to call it what it is, and not too 
shrink from this honesty because the terrorists and their sympathizers 
hide behind a great religion. Importantly, we must not seek to 
rationalize and explain the views and the behavior of our enemies 
through our values and experiences. Militant Islam seeks not to change 
our policies but to destroy our very way of life and replace it with a 
Taliban-like society ruled by Sharia law and its enforcers. Militant 
Islam has declared war on the West--be very clear about it. It is 
fundamentally at odds with freedom, with democracy, with the inherent 
humanity of the individual, with critical thinking, and rational 
decisionmaking, not to mention all other religious beliefs.

While it might be fueled by grievances, it is not caused by the West 
but, rather, by the very backwardness and ideological rigidity that 
they would impose on others.

The second point is this: We should be clear that militant Islam, 
though bound together by common ideology, comes in various stripes, 
including al-Qaida, responsible for 9/11 and which may have inspired 
the recent terror plots in Great Britain; Iran's radical regime, whose 
leader promises to ''wipe Israel off the map'' and envisions a ''world 
without America,'' and which is speeding toward the development of 
nuclear weapons; the Wahabbism of Saudi Arabia, which is funding 
radical ideology in mosques and madrassas all over the world, including 
here at home; groups like the Muslim Brotherhood, which cloaks its 
radical ideology in a new veneer of tolerance while its activities 
support terrorist groups like Hamas and many others.

But state-sponsored testing of the United States and the West is also 
in full force. Iran is testing our resolve in Iraq where it is using 
its Revolutionary Guard and its terrorist client, Hezbollah, to train 
and arm those who are fighting our soldiers. Iran is testing the 
resolve of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan where it is providing 
support to al-Qaida. Syria is testing our resolve in Lebanon, where it 
is assassinating anti-Syrian officeholders while serving as a conduit 
for the weapons that are rearming Hezbollah. Hamas is testing our 
resolve in Gaza where it launched a successful coup against the 
Palestinian Authority of Mahmoud Abbas.

Third, successful American response depends on resolve and support of 
the American people. We must understand the nature of our enemy and its 
ideology, confronting them head-on, with full confidence in the 
rightness of our cause. This is not a matter of moral relativism. We 
must not allow ourselves to be gagged by faux political correctness. We 
can say that these terrorists were bound together and motivated by a 
hateful ideology grounded in their interpretation of Islam without 
condemning any other Muslims. We must not embrace groups who tell us 
they stand for peace without renouncing violence in the name of Islam. 
We must not reward evil with retreat from any of the battlefields where 
the fight is raging, including Iraq and Afghanistan. And we must be 
willing to support intelligence and enforcement activities, including 
incarcerating those who have plotted against or attacked us.

As we celebrate the success of protecting our homeland since 9/11 and 
preventing loss of life from the attempted attacks in Great Britain, 
let our words and actions prove that we have not forgotten the resolve 
that we displayed six years ago today, and let us not fall into the 
temptation of blaming ourselves for the actions of those who, inspired 
by hatred, have declared war on us. It is not grievances which have 
spawned this hatred and these attacks but, rather, the hateful ideology 
of militant Islam.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a 
New York Post op-ed by Irshad Manji, dated July 9, 2007.

