# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `f77547d1e292e3a8b072c4174c61dee9`
`Mr. HAGEL — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Mr. President, I rise to express my sympathy over the loss 
of U.S. Army 1LT Jacob Fritz of Nebraska. Lieutenant Fritz was killed 
near Karbala, Iraq on January 20. He was 25 years old.

Lieutenant Fritz was raised on his family's farm near Verdon, NE. 
From a young age, Lieutenant Fritz knew he wanted to be a leader. After 
graduating from Dawson-Verdon High School in 2000, he followed through 
on this goal. I had the honor of nominating Lieutenant Fritz to the 
U.S. Military Academy at West Point. He graduated from the Academy in 
2005. His brother, Daniel Fritz, 22, followed in his footsteps and is 
currently in his third year at West Point. Like his brother Jake, I had 
the privilege of nominating Dan to West Point.

Lieutenant Fritz was leading a unit of more than 30 soldiers in Iraq 
since October. Lieutenant Fritz described his mission as a liaison 
between Iraqi police and the U.S. Army. He said the work was 
challenging, but rewarding.

Lieutenant Fritz was buried on January 31 with full military honors 
in a church cemetery 4 miles from his family home near Verdon, NE. 
Family and friends paid their final respects in a moving service that 
reminded all of the courage, commitment, and sacrifice of soldiers like 
Lieutenant Fritz. As his childhood friend Air Force 1LT Brett Cooper 
remembered, a life of service to his country followed by a retirement 
to the small town life that he loved was all that Lieutenant Fritz 
wanted. We're proud of Lieutenant Fritz's service to our country as 
well as the service of thousands of brave Americans who are currently 
serving in Iraq.

In addition to his brother Dan, Lieutenant Fritz is survived by his 
parents Lyle and Noala and his younger brother Ethan.

I ask my colleagues to join me and all Americans in honoring 1LT 
Jacob Fritz.
