---
---

# EXPRESSING SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING CREATION OF REFUGEE POPULATIONS
## `f777dfc20f9f695f22cf334d97cdc220`
`Mr. BERMAN — 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I would first like to commend my distinguished 
colleague, the gentleman from New York (Mr. Nadler), for introducing 
this important resolution.

When the state of Israel was founded in 1948, more than 150,000 Jews 
lived in Iraq. Iraq was truly a cradle of Jewish civilization, a site 
of Jewish learning from which one of Judaism's holiest books, the 
Talmud, emerged. For more than two millennia, as history books will 
attest, Jews also made vital contributions to wider Iraqi society.

Indeed, like Jews throughout the Arab world, Iraqi Jews for most of 
that long era enjoyed a quality of life far better than that of most 
Jewish communities in Europe.

That all changed for good in 1948, and in the years immediately 
preceding 1948, when the state of Israel declared its independence. 
Throughout the Arab world, Jews then became the objects of official 
scorn and often were fired from their jobs en masse. In many places, 
violence ensued against Jewish communities. Continuing to use Iraq as 
an example, that 150,000-strong community by 1952 had shrunk to a mere 
30,000. The rest, the other 120,000, had effectively been forced out.

Overall, approximately 850,000 Jewish residents of the Arab world 
were expelled or otherwise forced to leave their homes, abandoning 
possessions and patrimony, in the years following Israel's creation in 
1948. Vibrant, generations-old communities withered to near-negligible 
numbers.

That Iraqi community of 150,000 Jews in 1948 has dwindled to about 
ten today. In Egypt, a community of 75,000 in 1945 now numbers 50 to 
100. In Aden, Yemen, a community of 63,000 in 1948 has shrunk to about 
200 today. And 140,000 Jews lived in Tunisia in 1948; fewer than 100 
remain. In Morocco, which is hailed today as the bastion of Jewish-Arab 
coexistence in the Arab world, a thriving community of more than a 
quarter million Jews lived their lives in peace before 1948. Today, 
there are perhaps 5,000 Jews residing in Morocco. Some left willingly; 
most felt they had no choice.

For centuries, long before the advent of Islam and long after it, 
Jewish communities lived peacefully and often prosperously and 
productively in Arab lands, among Arab people.

Their forced relocation and the material value they lost when they 
were compelled to abandon their homes and other property in Arab 
countries has never been redressed. Not one Jew from the Arab world has 
been compensated for his losses. Each one had to start over from 
scratch in his new land.

Compare the Jewish refugee experience with the Palestinian refugee 
experience. Neither Jewish refugees themselves, nor Israel, which was 
an underdeveloped country at the time it hosted most of these refugees, 
sought international aid from United Nations organizations or other 
international organizations. Both refugees and hosts envisioned and 
sought full integration into the larger society. The Arab world, in 
contrast, demanded the international community foot the bill for the 
refugees, who were to be kept in camps that, to this day, breed 
frustration, hatred and dependence.

The result of these contrasting approaches is this: While the plight 
of Palestinian refugees is well known throughout the world, has been 
the subject of numerous U.N. resolutions, and has been a major element 
in every Arab-Israeli peace plan, the plight of Jewish refugees is 
rarely mentioned.

Nevertheless, the rights and redress of Jewish refugees deserve 
recognition in any peace settlement. And, indeed, numerous 
international agreements pertaining to the Arab-Israeli conflict have 
been codified with the rights of Jewish refugees in mind.

U.N. Security Council Resolution 242 calls for a ''just settlement to 
the refugee problem,'' without limiting that problem to Palestinians. 
Presidents Carter and Clinton each explicitly stated that the issue of 
Jewish refugees must be part of any comprehensive Arab-Israeli peace 
agreement.



And lest there be any doubt about their status, let me point out this 
very important fact: The United Nations High Commission on Refugees in 
1957 mandated that Jewish people who fled Arab countries are, indeed, 
''refugees.''

The right of Jewish refugees from Middle Eastern lands to seek 
redress does not in any way conflict with the right of Palestinian 
refugees to seek redress, and the resolution before us states this 
explicitly. This resolution merely expresses the sense of Congress that 
Jewish refugees also should not be denied their legitimate rights.

We are simply seeking to ensure that any comprehensive Middle East 
settlement is just and fully just to all the parties. That sentiment of 
basic fairness is one I fully embrace.

I strongly support this resolution. And I again congratulate my 
colleague, Mr. Nadler, for offering it.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.