---
---

# COMMEMORATING THE POLISH NATION
## `f778191c73a30903bc09d6c7fae923a9`
`Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana — 14 April 2010`

---


Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana. I want to thank my good friend from Ohio.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in remembrance of the 96 people who died so 
tragically in the plane crash near Smolensk, Russia, on Saturday, to 
stand here in solidarity with the Polish people during their time of 
immense loss. This is a time of sorrow for both our nations. And I 
extend my deepest sympathy to the Polish people.

The plane crash near Smolensk took the lives of many of Poland's 
leaders traveling to memorialize the 70th anniversary of the Katyn 
Forest massacre, as my good friend from Ohio had mentioned, where 
during World War II the Soviets executed approximately 22,000 Polish 
servicemembers, public servants, and citizens. Sadly, that site now 
claims the blood of more great Poles.

Killed on Saturday were President Lech Kaczynski, the First Lady, the 
governor of Poland's central bank, 12 members of parliament, four 
generals, many other key leaders, and great Polish citizens such as 
Anna Walentynowicz, the labor activist whose firing at the Gdansk 
shipyard helped spark the Solidarity strike.

President Kaczynski was a great leader of Poland and a close, 
important friend of the United States. The son of Polish freedom 
fighters, Lech Kaczynski was an active leader within the Solidarity 
movement for democratic reforms in Poland, which eventually led to free 
elections on June 4, 1989.

Elected President in 2005, President Kaczynski was a tireless 
advocate for stronger ties with the west and expanding NATO membership 
in Eastern Europe. He strengthened the cooperation between Poland and 
the United States, and his loss will be felt both in Poland and here in 
America.

Mr. Speaker, during the time of loss for the Polish people, I believe 
it is especially important that the United States work closely with the 
people of Poland on issues of mutual importance


and that we assist their government in any way possible.

I am honored to have joined the House of Representatives today in 
passing House Resolution 1246, which expressed this Chamber's sympathy 
to the people of Poland for their loss, and pledging continued 
solidarity with the people of Poland and persons of Polish descent.



Let us use this tragedy as an opportunity to recognize and celebrate 
the friendship between our two nations. As we know, Poland and the 
United States have had a long and important friendship based on 
solidarity together. In fact, at our Nation's very birth, Kazimier 
Pulaski, the great Polish cavalry officer, helped lead Americans in 
victories over the British and saved the life of George Washington. 
Polish Americans have contributed to the rich fabric of our Nation both 
throughout our history and today as vibrant and accomplished Americans, 
proud of their heritage and proud of their culture.

To my good friend from Ohio, as you have so many wonderful Polish-
American communities in your district, in my district, South Bend, 
Mishawaka, Michigan City, La Porte, all of those wonderful cities in 
Indiana are home to over 10,000 Polish Americans, and many more 
Hoosiers can trace their roots to Poland and many more Hoosiers 
throughout my district can trace their roots to Poland.

Poland is a crucial American ally. The role of Solidarity, led by 
Lech Walesa, and the support of Pope John Paul II were instrumental in 
bringing about a peaceful end to the Cold War and an end to communism 
in Europe. Since the fall of the Iron Curtain, Poland has worked 
closely with the United States, joining NATO in 1999, contributing 
troops to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and agreeing to cooperate 
with us on missile defense. Poland has instituted modern democratic and 
capitalist reforms, opening their country, economy, and their hearts to 
the world.

Mr. Speaker, let us remember those who perished in this past 
weekend's tragic disaster, and let us honor their lives and their 
contributions by continuing America's strong and unbreakable friendship 
with Poland for all the years to come.