---
---

# None
## `f784b01305b95abd5ae1a6ca3ccc5257`
`Mr. DORGAN — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I have been listening to the discussion 
this afternoon, which is a repeat of a discussion we have heard often 
in this Chamber: Who supports our troops; who waves the white flag of 
surrender. You know, in the discussion in this Chamber and out on the 
Presidential trail, we hear all of those terms, and who is willing to 
stick with it and defeat the terrorists with respect to the war on 
terror.

Well, let me, if I might, suggest there is a smart way and a tough 
way to deal with terrorists, and we are not doing it very effectively, 
in my judgment. I want to review for a moment, because we have people 
coming to the floor who forget to review where we are, and where we 
have been, especially.

In 2001, on September 11, terrorists attacked our country. Following 
the attack that killed thousands of innocent Americans--the World Trade 
Center, the Pentagon, and a farm field in Pennsylvania--following that 
attack, Osama bin Laden and the leadership of al-Qaida boasted that 
they engineered the attack against the American people. They boasted 
they engineered the attack against the American people. So the 
President says: We are going to have an effort to bring to justice the 
terrorists.

Well, it is now 2008. That was 2001. In 2008, our National 
Intelligence Estimate, released about 4 months ago, said the greatest 
terrorist threat to our country, to our homeland, is the al-Qaida 
organization and its leadership, who are now plotting additional 
attacks against our country. Our National Intelligence Estimate says 
the greatest terrorist threat to our country, 7 years after 9/11, is 
the al-Qaida leadership, because they are planning new attacks. They 
have reconstituted in a safe and secure hideaway in northern Pakistan. 
Those are the words of our National Intelligence Estimate, not my 
words--safe, secure. Iraq leadership, Osama bin Laden, still alive 7 
years later and creating new training camps, training new terrorists.

So how effective has the war on terror been when the greatest 
terrorist threat to our country 7 years after the 9/11 attack, the 
greatest terrorist threat is now building and reconstituting in 
northern Pakistan? It is reasonable to ask the question: Who took their 
eye off the ball? Why has this country, why has our policy not been a 
policy to bring to justice Osama bin


Laden and his al-Qaida leadership? Instead, 7 years later, we are mired 
down in a war in Iraq, we have spent nearly two-thirds of $1 trillion 
dollars, thousands of American soldiers have died, and we have people 
asking us about who waves the white flag of surrender and who supports 
our soldiers. That is unbelievable to me.

Let me review a bit. Following 9/11, we had top secret briefings for 
Senators and Congressmen--top secret briefings conducted by the head of 
the CIA. The Vice President was involved, the head of the National 
Security Agency, Condoleezza Rice, was involved. We went to those top 
secret briefings. All of us did. We were told things in top secret, 
shown classified materials, about what was happening in Iraq. It turns 
out that was a foundation for the invasion of Iraq. In fact, it was 
presented at the United Nations by Secretary of State Colin Powell. It 
turns out most of it was false; wrong on its face.

Let me review it for a moment--the issue of mobile chemical weapons 
laboratories in Iraq that threatens our country. Mobile chemical 
weapons laboratories in Iraq. You know where that came from? We now 
know it came from a single source, through our intelligence 
organizations to the American people, to Congress, in top secret 
briefings, to the world at the United Nations, a single source: A 
fellow who used to drive a taxicab in Baghdad nicknamed ''Curveball'' 
and widely considered by German authorities as a drunk and a 
fabricator.

A single source named Curveball gave this administration the ability 
to, in top secret briefings, tell us that Iraq had mobile chemical 
weapons laboratories and gave then-Secretary of State Colin Powell the 
opportunity to tell the world that Iraq had mobile chemical weapons 
laboratories. Turns out it wasn't true.

Will Rogers once said:




 It is not what he says he knows that bothers me, it's what 


 he says he knows for sure that just ain't so.


Curveball. One single source this administration used to tell us that 
mobile chemical weapons laboratories in Iraq threatened this country, 
and it turns out to have been false, and they should have known it. And 
some may have known it, as it was described to us.

The aluminum tubes. The aluminum tubes for the reconstitution of a 
nuclear capability in Iraq. Now, Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice, 
then National Security Adviser, even used the term the specter or the 
threat of a nuclear--or I guess she said mushroom cloud on television. 
The mushroom cloud. Well, it turns out her office had the information 
that a substantial portion of the Government didn't believe the nuclear 
tubes that were ordered by the Iraqis were for the purpose of 
reconstituting a nuclear capability. Most of that was discredited. The 
information in the National Security Adviser's office existed to say 
that there were very qualified people in this Government who didn't 
believe that.

It turns out none of that was true. The aluminum tube issue was not 
true. Those who were telling the world, and in top secret briefings 
telling Members of Congress about the threat of the nuclear tubes for 
the reconstitution of nuclear capability, had information in their 
possession and knew better.

Yellowcake from Niger is another big deal that made it into the 
President's address to the Congress in the State of the Union. It turns 
out that was based on falsified documents. It is unbelievable.

Maybe we should review the facts a bit. All of this information turns 
out to have been false--the information that represented the foundation 
on which the administration made the case about the need to invade 
Iraq. Well, this country invaded Iraq and had no plans, once the 
invasion was complete and the military takeover was complete, on how to 
deal with Iraq at that point, and it turned into a civil war.

Saddam Hussein, following that invasion, was captured and executed. 
He was hung by his neck until dead. He doesn't exist anymore. The Iraqi 
people then voted for a new constitution, and then the Iraqi people 
voted to constitute a new government.

So Saddam Hussein was killed, executed, a brutal dictator was 
executed by the Iraqi people. They got a new Constitution, they got a 
new Government, and then this country, in the context of spending 
almost two-thirds of a trillion dollars, this country spent $16 billion 
training 350,000 able-bodied Iraqis to be policemen and firefighters 
and safety personnel and soldiers. We trained an array of people in 
Iraq for security; $16 billion training 350,000 Iraqis, principally for 
security, police, and soldier duty.

Now, if the able-bodied people in Iraq who have been trained by this 
country are not willing and cannot and will not provide security in 
their country, our soldiers cannot stay there forever and do it. We 
cannot.

It is interesting to me, and very disappointing to me, that the 
President decided: we are going to invade Iraq, but we are not going to 
pay for it. Every single penny we are going to borrow.

So we are going to send soldiers to Iraq and send the bill to the 
debt. When the soldiers come back, they can pay the debt.

As I said earlier, it is two-thirds of a trillion dollars now in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, all of it emergency, none of it paid for. In my 
judgment, that is exactly the wrong thing to have done. We should have 
been saying: Yes, we will ask soldiers to sacrifice. If that is what we 
ask our soldiers to do, we will ask the American people to reach a 
similar sacrifice. But this President would not do that.

So we come now to a position where we have been in Iraq longer than 
we were engaged in the Second World War and we have folks who come to 
the Senate Chamber and we have folks out on the campaign trail saying: 
Who is going to wave the white flag of surrender?

Some say we are going to stay in Iraq forever, 100 years. Others look 
at a Taj Mahal that has been built in Iraq, nearly $800 million for an 
embassy in Iraq, the largest embassy in the world by far, and they 
think they know, as a result of that, how long some intend for us to 
stay in Iraq.

But we cannot do that. Let me mention one other addition. On top of 
all the things I have described--basically the false foundation of 
information on which this country made a decision to go to war--on top 
of all that, with this money we have spent, there has been the greatest 
amount of waste, fraud, and abuse in the history of this country and 
nobody seems to care very much.

Let me tell a couple stories: $85,000 trucks on the side of the road 
in Iraq, because they had a flat tire and no wrench to fix it, so they 
torched it, burned it. It does not matter, the American taxpayer is 
paying for it because big companies got sweetheart, no-bid, cost-plus 
contracts. Got a flat tire, torch the truck. Got a plugged fuel pump, 
it does not matter, torch the truck.

I mean, the stories are unbelievable. You got two builders to provide 
ice. The Haliburton Company is going to select between two bidders to 
provide ice. One is seven times more than the other bid. Well, pick the 
contract that costs seven times more than the other because the 
taxpayer is picking up the tab.

They buy little hand towels for the troops, because Haliburton has to 
do that. Well, they do not want to buy ordinary hand towels for the 
troops, they want their logo embroidered on the hand towels, KBR, the 
subsidiary, Kellogg Brown and Root. Well, that is going to increase the 
cost of the hand towels triple, quadruple. It does not matter; the 
taxpayer is going to pay the bill.

Do you want to know where there are 50,000 pounds of nails, 25 tons 
of nails? They are on the sands in Iraq. They ordered them. They were 
too short. What do you do with 50,000 pounds of nails that are too 
short? You throw them away because the taxpayer is going to pick it up. 
You just order the right size.

This is the most unbelievable story that is yet to be told about the 
greatest waste, fraud, and abuse in the history of this country. There 
is a lot to talk about.

We are going to have a hearing in the Senate Appropriations 
Committee. I have held 12 hearings in the policy committee on these 
issues. We are going to hold more. I have to run to a meeting. But I 
did want to come and talk a bit. I did not have the opportunity to 
describe who is it that is supporting America's soldiers and what is


it that does support our fighting men and women? We send them off to 
war.

There is going to be a Medal of Honor, by the way, awarded next 
Monday at 2:30 in the White House to a man who died 26 years ago, a 
Sioux Indian named Woody Keeble. I hope perhaps to come over tomorrow 
and tell the story of Woody Keeble. There are soldiers who have given 
so much for this country.

Woody Keeble had 85 pieces of lead in his body when he finished what 
he did. He was still alive.

But these folks then go to war and do what they do and come back 
home. And then the question is: Who stands up for our soldiers? Who 
stands up for our veterans? Who is willing to stand here and say we 
will keep our promise for veterans health care? Who does that?

There is a lot to say. I regret I have a commitment that I have to be 
at in the majority leader's office, but I would like tomorrow to come 
back and speak at greater length about a remarkable American who on 
Monday will be recognized by President Bush, a North Dakotan from 
Wahpeton, ND, Standing Rock, the Wahpeton-Sisseton Sioux Tribe. He will 
be recognized as the first Sioux Indian in this country's history to 
receive the Medal of Honor.

I yield the floor.