# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `f793c2ca95af449bfe2e01c01f3ca683`
`Mrs. BOXER — 21 January 2009`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, it is such a pleasure to be here, and I 
want to say to my chairman, Senator Kerry, how much I wish him the best 
in his new position.

I am a very proud member of the Foreign Relations Committee, and I 
want to talk a little bit about Hillary Clinton and her qualifications 
to be Secretary of State and, more than that, our need to see her 
confirmed as swiftly as possible this afternoon.

Many of my constituents are visiting for the great inaugural 
celebration we witnessed yesterday. They played a role in it. Many of 
them have talked to me and asked: Well, why hasn't Hillary Clinton been 
confirmed already? Why has there been any delay? She is obviously so 
well qualified.

I answered: Well, several of my colleagues on the other side had some 
issues with disclosure of Clinton Foundation donations. And I believe 
we will deal with that.

I think it is important to point out that President Clinton has 
agreed to disclose so much regarding his foundation. Other Presidents 
do not disclose anything. I think if there is any problem, we will have 
transparency and we will know.


What my constituents are saying to me is this: Look, we need a strong 
and respected Secretary of State who is knowledgeable on day one. They 
basically say there are two reasons for that, and I agree with them. 
The first reason is, there are so many hot spots in the world and so 
many complicated issues out there for the next Secretary


of State. Hillary Clinton--having run for President, having been a 
United States Senator, having served on the Armed Services Committee--
is supremely ready for these challenges. Whether it is winding down the 
war in Iraq, which our President says he will do responsibly and soon; 
whether it is making sure we don't lose Afghanistan to the Taliban and 
set that nation back; whether it is the terrible crisis between Israel 
and the Palestinians; whether it is turmoil in Africa, genocide in 
Darfur, the war on terror in general, or the need to win over the 
hearts and minds of people around the globe, all of these things are 
out there for our new President, President Obama, to address. He needs 
someone to help him shoulder that burden. He is going to count on 
Hillary Clinton to do that. He is going to count on Senator Kerry in 
his new position, all of us on the committee and all of us in the 
Senate, as well as House leaders to do that.

Hillary Clinton understands all of these hot spots. She also 
understands the fact that there is one President and she will work with 
him and for him and for the American people. After all, she was in the 
White House and she knows the President sets foreign policy. She 
understands that. So she is supremely ready.

The other reason my friends from California have stated is this: We 
need someone with that prestige, with that recognition, with that 
charisma because we have so many problems at home to which our 
President has to attend. And Hillary Clinton has that sense of, 
frankly, star quality, the ability to gain attention and respect. 
President Obama couldn't do the work himself. If he had to fly all over 
the world, he couldn't take the time he needs to fight this deepening 
recession.

President Obama is inheriting massive problems. These problems didn't 
happen in a day; they happened over the last 8 years. It is going to 
take time to get out of some of the mess. President Bush had a surplus; 
he has put us deeply in debt. Pay as you go is gone. Our new President 
has to deal with that.

President Bush made no progress on health care. Our new President has 
to deal with it. On the environment, we have gone backwards. I know the 
chairman understands this. He serves on the committee on which I am 
privileged to serve as well, the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 1 more minute.