# GUANTANAMO BAY
## `f7a80026aaa272e69ebdd57381a60f04`
`Mr. HATCH â€” 12 March 2009`

---


Mr. HATCH. You can't. To have to bring these prisoners here, we don't 
have room, and the cost would be astronomical. Thirdly, we are going to 
have real big problems that we will have a difficult time handling, 
assuming we can find places to put them. I have been down there, too, 
and I have been involved in this for a long time. The Federal Bureau of 
Prisons cannot receive these detainees. We are already overcrowded in 
high-security facilities by almost 7,000 prisoners.

What is our next option? Military custody? These detainees are 
already held in military custody. Why are we bringing them from one 
military installation to another? Some ideas regarding military custody 
and presented by the majority include the transfer of the detainees to 
Fort Leavenworth, KS. My esteemed colleague from Kansas, Senator 
Brownback, already pointed out this idea would have dire consequences 
for the Army's Command and General Staff College. This is a course run 
by the Army and open to foreign students from our military partners. 
Some of these foreign officers are from Islamic nations that have 
supported us in our ongoing efforts against terrorism. The governments 
of these nations have publicly declared that they will withdraw their 
personnel from the course if enemy combatants are transferred to the 
Military Discipline Barracks at Fort Leavenworth. What a loss that 
would be.

I know mistakes were made in the early days of Guantanamo. There may 
have been some isolated cases where the treatment of some of these 
detainees there could be construed as not being in accordance with the 
Geneva Convention. In response to these deficiencies, the Supreme 
Court, Congress, the Department of Defense, and Justice have 
implemented protections and mechanisms to ensure that this will not 
happen again. The U.S. Supreme Court has issued decisions ensuring that 
constitutionally guaranteed rights apply to these men. Military 
prosecutors and FBI agents are conducting reviews of evidence held 
against detainees to ensure their admissibility. Military leaders in 
charge of Guantanamo have taken measures to ensure that humane 
standards and treatment of detainees and their religion exceeds not 
only the Geneva Convention but most prison standards found in the 
United States. Whatever problems there were at Guantanamo have been 
addressed and corrected.

I also remind my distinguished colleagues that our war against 
terrorism will not end with the signing of a treaty. The cessation of 
hostilities in Afghanistan is far from over. We are now shifting our 
focus and additional troops back to that theater of operation. This 
will increase the likelihood of contact with the enemy, which may 
require additional detentions. In the days ahead, I hope Congress will 
play a part in the disposition of detainees and the future of 
Guantanamo Bay. A well-thought-out and properly executed plan offered 
by the President would easily garner bipartisan support. I ask the 
President to rethink his deadline of closing Guantanamo less than 12 
months from now. This is a useable facility that has merit and 
operational worthiness.

In closing, I will quote the 34th President of the United States, 
Dwight D. Eisenhower, who said the following: ''Peace and justice are 
two sides of the same coin.''

I commend the President for wanting to conduct a thorough review of 
the operations at Guantanamo. My assessment is, this was completed 2 
weeks ago with the Defense Department's report and the Attorney 
General's visit. What else is there to do? Let's get back to the task 
at hand of resuming military commissions and the humane detention of 
enemy combatants.

I am very concerned about this. So far, I have not seen a 
conscientious, let alone remarkably worthwhile or worthy, plan that 
would exceed what we are already doing in Guantanamo or that would be 
as good as what we are already doing there.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the letter from the 
Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons, dated September 10, 
2007, be printed in the Record at this point.