---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2638, CONSOLIDATED SECURITY,  DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `f7cbd98d40580067afb72760bdc05b6a`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 1488 provides for consideration of 
the Senate amendment to H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

The rule makes in order a motion by the chairman of the Committee on 
Appropriations to concur in the Senate amendment with a House 
amendment. The rule provides 1 hour of debate on the motion, equally 
divided and controlled by the Committee on Appropriations.

The House amendment inserts language for continuing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2009, making emergency supplemental appropriations and 
covering three regular fiscal year 2009 appropriations bills, each in a 
separate division.

Division A provides continuing appropriations for all agencies and 
activities that would be covered by the regular fiscal year 2009 
appropriations bills until enactment of the applicable regular 
appropriations bill or until March 6, 2009, whichever occurs first. 
Emergency FY09 appropriations for LIHEAP and advanced technology 
vehicle manufacturing loans are also included.



Division B provides $22.9 billion in emergency supplemental 
appropriations for relief and recovery from hurricanes, floods, and 
other natural disasters.

Division C provides $487.7 billion in FY09 funding for the Department 
of Defense.

Division D provides $40 billion in FY09 funding for the Department of 
Homeland Security.

Division E provides $72.9 billion in FY09 funding for Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs.

Mr. Speaker, let me begin with the good news, a fact that my friends 
on the other side of the aisle cannot refute. This is the last time 
that we will have to deal with Bush's budget priorities. After 8 years 
of President Bush's fiscal mismanagement, we will soon vote on the 
final Bush appropriations bill.

Eight years ago, George Bush became the 43rd President of the United 
States. Are the American people better off after 8 years of George 
Bush? The answer is a clear and resounding no. His administration and 
the then Republican-controlled Congress inherited a $5.6 trillion 
budget surplus from President Clinton, and they turned that into about 
a $3.2 trillion deficit and have left us with a national debt that 
stands at $9.8 trillion. That is the biggest debt we have had in the 
history of the United States of America.

Because of George Bush, we are stuck in a quagmire in Iraq. Because 
of George Bush, more people are living in poverty and more people are 
going hungry than they were 8 years ago. And because of this President 
and his administration, we have the worst financial crisis since the 
Great Depression. Just 40 days from the election and 117 days until the 
next president is inaugurated, President Bush is asking for a $700 
billion blank check to fix the mess on Wall Street that he and his 
allies helped create.

Thankfully, this continuing resolution will keep the government up 
and running until March 6 of 2009 and hopefully, at that time, we will 
have a President with a very different set of priorities.

The process getting here hasn't been perfect. I am disappointed that 
we weren't able to consider all of the appropriations bills here in the 
House under regular order. But my Republican colleagues share much of 
the blame for this inaction. Every time the Republicans had an 
opportunity to act like statesmen and do the business of the American 
people, they decided to do the opposite, to play partisan games in 
attempts to score political points. Instead of acting like honest 
brokers, they decided to demagog these bills until there was no ability 
for the House to act on them.

We should all remember last year when the Republicans tried to 
filibuster the Agriculture appropriations bill by offering silly 
amendment after silly amendment, cutting a program by $50,000, then 
$75,000 and then $100,000. And we should all remember earlier this year 
when the Republicans attempted to kill the Labor-HHS appropriations 
bill by replacing it in committee with the Interior bill. So when my 
friends on the other side of the aisle complain about the lack of 
regular order, I would suggest they take a good, long look in the 
mirror.

And this bill isn't perfect. Because of the intransigence by the 
White House, there are a lot of programs that I care deeply about that 
are underfunded. But this is the best product we could hope for under 
these circumstances. Thanks to the hard work and dedication of the 
chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, David Obey, and his 
incredible staff, there are some bright spots in this bill.

First and foremost are the increases in LIHEAP and WIC. This bill 
fully funds LIHEAP, something the Republicans never did, and increases 
funding for the WIC program by $1 billion over 2008. At a time when 
energy and food prices are skyrocketing, we cannot and will not ignore 
the plight of Americans who are struggling to heat their homes or put 
food on the table. I am also pleased the bill includes $23.5 million 
more for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program. This increase will 
prevent 70,000 low-income women, infants, children and seniors from 
losing access to food.

I am also pleased that there is a $2.5 billion increase in Pell 
Grants. Unfortunately, this will not restore Pell Grants to the 
original purchasing power, but it is a good start that will prevent 
potential cuts in student aid that could come during the school year.

Another critical component of this continuing resolution is the 
disaster aid package. Earlier this year, Iowa and the Midwest were hit 
with disastrous floods. Wildfires have caused major damage in the West. 
And this hurricane season has already been deadly and costly with 
Hurricanes Gustav and Ike causing major damage in the gulf coast 
States. This continuing resolution includes almost $23 billion to 
address these natural disasters. Funding will be directed to FEMA, the 
Community Development Block Grants Program, the Army Corps of 
Engineers, and several other important disaster recovery efforts that 
will help these ravaged areas across our Nation. I am also pleased that 
there is $100 million to help Haiti recover from Ike and other 
hurricanes, and another $100 million for international food aid to 
provide emergency food assistance.

In addition, the fiscal year 2009 Defense, Military Construction and 
Veterans Affairs, and Homeland Security appropriations bills are all 
included in this continuing resolution. There is no higher priority 
than providing funding for our military and for the men and women who 
defend our Nation.

Finally, let me comment on what is not in this bill. Unfortunately, 
and at the insistence of the White House, there is no economic stimulus 
package, no new money for food stamps, unemployment insurance or 
Medicaid. There is no new money for transportation projects to help 
jumpstart our ailing economy, and there is no ban on offshore drilling.

Mr. Speaker, I simply cannot understand how this President and his 
Republican partners in the House and Senate can ask for a $700 billion 
blank check for Wall Street, but oppose $50 billion to help people 
afford to put food on the table or to make ends meet while they look 
for a job in this ailing economy or prevent States from cutting health 
care benefits to people on Medicaid.

Republicans like to say that people have to pull themselves up by 
their own bootstraps. Well, it's hard to do that if you can't afford 
any boots. During these tough economic times, it is critical that we 
help all Americans, not just the fat cats on Wall Street. Yet as 
Katrina and this economic crisis here have shown, the Republican Party 
has no interest in helping the people who need it most.

Again, Mr. Speaker, the good news is that this is the last time that 
we will have to deal with this President and his budgetary priorities. 
Help, I believe, is on the way. With a new administration and more 
Democrats in Congress, we will be able to finally act on these 
priorities of the American people.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.