---
---

# None
## `f7ce3274791584c12f3671a33d762c64`
`Mr. CARTER — 22 April 2009`

---


Mr. CARTER. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and thank you for recognizing me 
for this hour. I'm very pleased to be here.

I'm here to talk about a subject that, I think, is very interesting, 
and I don't think the American people have really gotten their hands on 
this subject yet, but it's also extremely concerning. It really 
concerns me a great deal.

I happen to serve on the Subcommittee on Appropriations for the 
Department of Homeland Security. We have spent an awful lot of time and 
an awful lot of effort trying to make sure that we keep our country 
safe from clearly identified terrorists who, if you have any question 
of do they mean us harm, then just look back at the Pentagon and the 
World Trade Center, and then ask yourself: Do they mean us harm?

We have been diligently trying to defend our borders, diligently 
trying to stop terrorism and trying to catch it before it gets here and 
trying to deal with these people who have identified themselves and who 
have told everyone publicly they're here to hurt us. Now we have a new 
administration, and we have a new memo that has come out from Ms. 
Napolitano over at the Department of Homeland Security. It would just 
shock you to know that she is warning not of al Qaeda, not of the 
Taliban, not of Osama bin Laden. She is warning people about right-wing 
radical domestic terrorism.

Now, this would be almost humorous, but those of us who have a little 
age on us, like I do, can think back to the Clinton administration and 
can remember how many times when anybody ever criticized the Clinton 
administration you would hear the First Lady then and now Secretary of 
State say, ''Well, it's all a plot by those right-wing extremists, 
those right-wing extremist organizations.'' President Bill Clinton 
would say, ''Well, they don't agree with my party and with what we're 
saying here, but it's really the people you're hearing from who are 
right-wing extremists.'' They label talk show hosts as right-wing 
extremists. All this fear was generated about right-wing extremists. 
Now we're not even 6 months into the Obama administration, and the 
people who are supposed to be protecting our homeland are warning us 
against right-wing extremists.

This is the intelligence briefing right here. Now, I'm not trying to 
be mean about all of this. I'm just trying to tell you what they tell 
me is a right-wing extremist. I just took the things that they tell 
people who fall into that category, and then I put those 
classifications in with a poll that we did to identify the nature of my 
congressional district. Believe it or not, based upon accurate polling 
data that has been done in my district, 81 percent of the registered 
voters in my congressional district would qualify as right-wing 
extremists under Ms. Napolitano's memo--81 percent. They're probably 
going to come up with a category to cover the other 19 percent. I'm not 
being facetious about this. I happen to have Fort Hood, Texas in my 
district. Fort Hood, Texas is the largest military base on the face of 
the Earth. It has two field divisions of the corps headquarters.

One of the things they tell us in this report is very sad in light of 
what our Army has been going through, which is to watch out for 
returning, disgruntled military veterans coming back from Iraq and 
Afghanistan in that they have the potential to be right-wing 
terrorists. These young men and women, some of whom have done four and 
five deployments overseas, some of those deployments for as much as 15 
months, have served our Nation as heroes, as the next great generation, 
and our government is labeling them: At the time they finish their 
service, we should consider them potential right-wing extremists and 
terrorists. They are defining them as people the government had better 
keep an eye on. Veterans who have served in other wars are in here. 
They classify them as right-wing extremists.

Are you opposed to abortion? It says right here at the bottom of this 
page: ''It may include groups and individuals that are dedicated to a 
single issue, such as opposition to abortion or immigration.''

It's just shocking. It basically says, if you disagree with the Obama 
administration, you could be a right-wing terrorist. Now, I hate to say 
that. It talks about people who believe in the right to keep and bear 
arms: right-wing terrorists. It talks about people who disagree with 
the stimulus package: right-wing terrorists. It talks about people who 
disagree with the economic path of recovery that this Nation is taking: 
potential right-wing terrorists. This is what this report says. I'm 
sure it's available. It's unclassified. It's for official use. We got 
it off the Internet. There's more, a lot more.

I have friends here who have joined me on this shocking thing that's 
going on in this country. I'm going to start with my good friend, 
Virginia Foxx, who was with us here in the last hour, and I'm very 
pleased to have her again.



I'll yield to her what time she may need to consume.