# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `f7d04c4f374866209fd6ee3c94660d77`
`Mr. INHOFE â€” 15 July 2009`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I wish to pause for a moment. I know we 
are on the bill, and I am most anxious to proceed with the Defense 
authorization bill, having served on the committee since 1994 and 
before then in the House. It is imperative now that we get as robust a 
bill as possible.

Before doing that, let me mention one thing because I haven't yet 
spoken about this. I have been watching several of our colleagues who 
have come to the floor to speak about a great Senator, Norm Coleman, 
who is no longer seated in the Senate but who is a remarkable 
character.

A good friend of mine, Paul Weyrich, who recently died, wrote an op-
ed piece, and it is called ''The Workhorses and the Show Horses.'' He 
talked about so many of the Members of the House and the Senate who are 
out there just to make themselves look good. They are the ones who are 
show horses. Then there are the workhorses. We talk about someone such 
as Norm Coleman, who was always there and getting deeply involved in 
issues, many of which are not popular issues if you are using them to 
run for reelection. I am thinking of a close friend, a mutual friend of 
ours named Ward Brehm. Ward Brehm and I have been working together for 
a long time on some things in Africa, as the Chair is aware, and he was 
talking about being from Minnesota and how much involved Norm Coleman 
got in various international affairs issues that don't have any votes 
behind them, but he was willing to do it. Every time you turned around, 
he was willing to do things that other people weren't willing to do.

I remember several years ago when he and I met with a delegation from 
Burundi and Rwanda and the DRC. This was a group that was over here in 
conjunction with the National Prayer Breakfast. He and I always worked 
together during the time that we had the National Prayer Breakfast. We 
would get these people to come all the way over here from different 
countries, but we kind of concentrated on Africa. I remember him 
standing there talking about, for a long period of time--keep in mind 
he is a Jew. I was never real clear where in New York he was from--I 
think the Bronx or someplace. But anyway, he was very strong in the 
Jewish community, and I am not. I am on the Christian side. But we 
would always get together and talk to them about Jesus and talk to them 
about loving God. And then when he would pray--at the end of these 
things, we would offer a prayer, and he would end up giving a prayer in 
Hebrew--an amazing guy.

At the National Prayer Breakfast African dinner 2 years ago--I had 
sponsored the dinner that was for all the Africans who had come over 
for the Prayer Breakfast and stayed for the African dinner--he was a 
major player in that. So these are things people didn't know about Norm 
Coleman.

The idea is scripturally based; it is Acts 2:42. It is kind of a 
genesis of these weekly Prayer Breakfasts in the Senate. On Wednesday 
mornings, we had a Prayer Breakfast and about 20, 25 Senators showed up 
every Wednesday and Norm Coleman was the chairman of that and was 
always in these groups. But he was also one who was helping us in 
forming these same groups with members of Parliament from all over 
Africa. He was a tireless worker in that effort, which was not 
something out there to get any votes.

I talked to him the other day, having gone through this election and 
then the 8 months or so, whatever it was, in recounting and all of 
that. I told him that many years ago I was mayor of Tulsa, and I did a 
pretty good job, I thought. I was supposed to win hands down. Someone 
came out of obscurity and because of a set of circumstances that should 
have gotten votes, not lost votes, I had lost unexpectedly on that 
Tuesday.

Well, we had scheduled our Tulsa Mayor's Prayer Breakfast the next 
morning. Bill Bright, who died not too long ago, came by as the 
speaker. Keep in mind, here he was the speaker at the Mayor's Prayer 
Breakfast the morning after I lost the election. He gave the most 
brilliant speech. I remember how he said it and the words he used. He 
said: A lot of times we think in terms of what is happening to us 
today, looking at our own careers, but, he said, God is still up there 
and there is a plan for all of us. He said in a very clear way that I 
thoroughly understood, the day after I lost the election I wasn't 
supposed to lose, that God opens a window and he closes a door and that 
window is going to be bigger. I can tell you right now I wouldn't be 
doing what I am doing today if it had not been for that.

So I would just say about my friend, Norm Coleman, God has a plan in 
mind for you, Norm, and it is one we will look back someday and say 
perhaps this is the best thing that could have happened to you. In the 
meantime, we love you, Norm, and God bless you.















 Amendment No. 1511


I wish to also speak in terms of a program that I think a lot of 
people don't understand, and on which I know there is honest 
disagreement.

The F-22, people have said, is something like a Cold War aircraft. It 
is not. To quote Secretary Donnelly and General Schwartz both, because 
they both said the same thing, they said the F-22 is unquestionably the 
most capable fighter in our military inventory, not just air to air, as 
some on this floor have insinuated, but also precision attack air to 
ground, as well as intelligence collection. In contrast, almost every 
other piece of military equipment in our inventory today--air, land, 
and sea--is Cold War equipment that needs to be replaced.

I think about the Bradley vehicle. It has been around since the 
1960s. I think about the Abrams tank. It has been around since the 
1970s. I think about the Paladin, even though we have had about five 
major upgrades on the Paladin, that is our artillery beast, and that 
was actually World War II technology where you had to get out of the 
thing after every shot and swab the breach. You hear that and people 
can't believe it. Well, fortunately, we are going to go through an 
improvement on that. But the point I am trying to make is most of the 
stuff we have is Cold War stuff and to find that F-22 isn't needed 
because it wasn't flown in Iraq and Afghanistan, I think, is pretty 
narrow-minded. We have a lot of people we have to defend America 
against for contingencies that we don't know are out there and we don't 
know what our needs are going to be. The need certainly wasn't there in 
terms of Afghanistan and Iraq, but we don't know where the next enemy 
is going to be coming from or what the next contingency is. I wish we 
did. I can remember being on the House Armed Services


Committee my last year there in 1984. We had people testify. They 
said--these are smart people. They said: You know, in 10 years, we will 
no longer need ground capability. And look what has happened since that 
time.

So no matter how smart our people are, there is no way we are going 
to be able to determine where the next guy is going to come from and 
what our capability is going to have to be. Is it going to be in the 
air, sea, strike vehicles, lift capacity, cannons? So we need to keep 
that in mind because the only thing we have in the form of a fifth-
generation fighter is the F-22, and it is uniquely designed and 
equipped to penetrate a hostile environment and be a savage air 
dominance for our ground forces. The F-22, I look at it as an 
investment in the future, not just 10 years down the road but 20 years 
and beyond. What we build today is going to have to be able to 
determine and deter and defeat adversaries for decades. Just look at 
the age of our entire military today. We talked about all these 
vehicles, but we have such things as the national security in long 
term, 40 years. We can't even see what we are going to need 10 years 
from now.

Now we talk about the F-35. Well, the F-35 is great. I am a strong 
supporter of the F-35 and working on it and getting it up as fast as 
possible. Its mission requirements are not the same as the F-22. The F-
22 is out flying today, and we have that capability today. Only five F-
35s are flying, and it is still in the testing period. It is impossible 
to assess the full capabilities of the F-35 until operational tests are 
completed in, I think, 2014. Well, that is 2014. This is 2009. There is 
a lot of time between now and 2014.

While we discuss cutting the only fifth-generation fighter in 
production today, China and Russia are continuing to move forward with 
the development of their fifth-generation fighters. I think they call 
the Chinese one the J-12 and the Russian is the T-50. They are out 
there right now talking about building these things. Today our Legacy, 
our F-15s, F-16s, F-18s are less capable than other fourth-generation 
fighters, such as the SU-27 and the SU-30 series aircraft.

I might remind the President that we have--we already know other 
countries are buying these capable fourth-plus generation aircraft that 
are better than what we have now, except for the F-22. We know of one 
sale, and I remember this--it has been quite awhile ago now--for F-27s 
from China, 240 of these. Now they are talking about cutting our number 
of F-22s--and I will talk about the numbers in a minute--down to the 
187 and stopping the amendment that would increase that by seven 
vehicles. I don't want to see our Legacy fighters outmatched by fifth-
generation fighters developed by China and Russia. I have always said 
our pilots are better, our training is better, but they have to have at 
least comparable equipment to survive.

So our air-to-air threat is only one aspect of the threat our Air 
Force faces today. Our surface-to-air threat remains to be a real 
serious problem. You just think about what the Russians are making now, 
the S-300s and the Chinese 4000s. They are capable of tracking up to 
100 targets and getting as high as 90,000 feet in the air.

Now, that is priceless. These systems that make penetrating hostile 
airspace difficult and deadly for a legacy aircraft, including unmanned 
vehicles, such as our Predator, which has performed brilliantly, are 
uncontested facts. Only the F-22, with its advance stealth technology 
and weaponry and supersonic speeds, can successfully penetrate what we 
call denied airspace, hunt and destroy strategic ground targets during 
the day or night, and collect and provide battle intelligence and 
awareness, and maintain our superiority in the air.

The Air Force officials have repeatedly stated no less than 243 F-22s 
would be sufficient to maintain a moderate level of risk. We are 
talking about the deaths of Americans. If that is the goal, that is 
what we should have. In the beginning, it was 750 F-22s. We have slowly 
gone down. That is what this amendment is about today.

GEN John Corley, Commander of the Air Force Combat Command, said:




 At Air Combat Command, we have held the need for 381 F-22s 


 to deliver a tailored package of air superiority to our 


 Combatant Commanders and provide a potent, globally arrayed 


 asymmetric deterrent against potential adversaries. In my 


 opinion, a fleet of 187 F-22s puts the execution of our 


 current national military strategy at high risk in the near 


 to mid term. To my knowledge, there are no studies that 


 demonstrate that 187 F-22s are adequate to support our 


 national military strategy. Air Combat Commandment analysis, 


 done in concert with the Headquarters Air Forces, shows a 


 moderate risk force can be obtained with an F-22 fleet of 


 approximately 250 aircraft.


So we are talking about a bare minimum number, and whether it is 243 
or 250, that should be a bare minimum number.

While the F-22 hasn't deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan, a theater 
security package of six F-22s are on a continuous rotation to Guam in 
the Pacific Theater of Operations and have been forward deployed in 
Japan.

Why? Because it is the only fighter capable of stealthy penetration 
of North Korea's air defenses.

Finally, there continues to be allegations about the costs and 
operations of the F-22--to include an article last week in the 
Washington Post. The bottom line is, these allegations are false or 
intentionally misleading. The F-22 cost per flying hour is $19,750, not 
more than $44,000, as they were trying to say. The F-22 maintenance 
trends have improved from 62 percent to 68 percent. The F-22 skin is 
not vulnerable to rain. Finally, the fly-away cost for F-22s multiyear 
this Congress approved is $142.6 million, not $350 million.

One final point on all of these supposed studies about the F-22: We 
have been through this before with the approval of the multiyear and 
are going through it again. I have been briefed on both classified and 
unclassified studies, and while the range of numbers varied, each study 
concluded that 183 F-22s is not enough. So we need to continue to build 
the F-22s and look at exporting this aircraft to our allies. 
Fortunately, some of that is taking place today. Japan, Australia, and 
Israel have expressed considerable interest in the purchase of F-22s.

Nations around the world realize the F-22A Raptor is the only 
operational fighter-bomber available that can successfully defeat and 
destroy air and ground threats of today and tomorrow.

So what we are talking about is--in the markup, we increased the 
number by seven aircraft. The chief mover of this, I have to say, was 
Senator Saxby Chambliss. As I told him, this is not enough. He agreed, 
but it was the most we thought we could do.

I believe when the time comes for an amendment to cut that number 
down, we need to give serious consideration to that amendment and not 
allow it to pass.

There is an expectation of the American people--and I have gone 
through this before with other airframes and other ground platforms--
the American people think we give our kids who go into battle the very 
best of everything. I can tell you that is not true. I gave an example. 
There are five countries, including South Africa, that make a better 
non-line-of-sight cannon than we have today.

To me, that is unacceptable. It is unacceptable to the American 
people when we explain that is the situation. The F-15, F-16, and the 
F-14 have done a great job, but they need to move on to the fourth and 
fifth generation, and the only way to do that is with the F-22, which 
has been a success story.
















 Guantanamo Bay


I have another interest I want to share today, and that has to do 
with Gitmo. People are probably tired of hearing me talk about Gitmo, 
but I think we are about to make a mistake. The administration is 
making the demand that we close Gitmo. I have stood on the floor of the 
Senate many times and talked about my experiences there--the fact that 
anybody who wants to close Gitmo, if you ask why, they will say that 
for some reason people associate that with the types of torture that 
allegedly went on at Abu Ghraib and all of that.

This has nothing to do with that. There has not been a documented 
case of waterboarding at Gitmo. It is a state-of-the-art prison.

When President Obama talked about the 17 locations in America where 
we can take terrorists and relocate them from Gitmo to America, one 
happened to be Fort Sill in my State of Oklahoma. I went down to Fort 
Sill, and there was a lady in charge. She is a young major in charge of 
the prison where they would put these terrorists.



She said, ''I don't understand what people are thinking.'' This young 
lady, named SMA Carter, said she had two tours at Gitmo, and it is 
designed for terrorists. They have a court system where they can do 
tribunals.

We have six classifications of security in Gitmo. It is one of the 
few good deals the government has. We have had it since 1903. I have 
told the Presiding Officer this before. We only pay $4,000 a year for 
it. Do you have a better deal than that in government? There isn't one.

I have to say the terrorists are still at war with the United States, 
and we are legally entitled to capture and hold enemies and fighters in 
the hostilities. We detain terrorists and supporters to prevent them 
from returning to the battlefield, saving the lives of our service men 
and women and the lives of civilians who are innocent victims. I have 
spent a lot of time there. I am familiar with some of the terrorists 
there who are really bad people. They want to kill everybody who is 
listening right now. That is their mission in life.

We have had about 800 suspected al-Qaida and Taliban terrorists who 
have been sent to Gitmo since 9/11--people who are really bad. I looked 
through there, and we saw Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. He was the architect 
of 9/11. There was also the guy who was the explosives trainer for 9/
11, who provided information on the September 2001 assassination of the 
Northern Alliance leader, Masood, and on the al-Qaida organization's 
use of mines. There was also the terrorist financier who provided 
detailed information on Osama bin Laden's front companies. There was 
the Taliban fighter linked to al-Qaida operatives connected to the 1998 
East Africa Embassy bombings. Remember that, in Tanzania and Kenya? 
Down there we also had an al-Qaida explosives trainer who designed a 
prototype shoe bomb for destroying airplanes, as well as a magnet mine 
for attacking ships.

These people are unlike the types of prisoners we have had in other 
wars. If we look back during any of our wars, we had soldiers fighting 
for their countries. These people are not soldiers fighting for a 
country. They are fighting for a cause, and that cause is to destroy 
us.

To date over 540 prisoners have been transferred or released, leaving 
approximately 230 at Gitmo. They include members of al-Qaida and 
related terrorist organizations, planners of major terrorist attacks 
worldwide, including 9/11. These are the types of people there.

The intelligence gained from detainees at Gitmo helped the United 
States and its allies identify, exploit, and disrupt terrorist 
operations worldwide, saving untold lives. There have been a number of 
terrorist attacks. For a long time, they were classified, but most are 
no longer classified.

In 2007, the Senate voted 94 to 3 on a nonbinding resolution to block 
detainees from being transferred to the United States, declaring:




 Detainees housed at Guantanamo should not be released into 


 American society, nor should they be transferred State-side 


 into facilities in American communities and neighborhoods.


On May 20, 2009, the Senate voted 90 to 6 on a bipartisan amendment 
by myself and Senator Inouye to prohibit funding for the transfer of 
Gitmo detainees to the United States. Unfortunately, the supplemental 
appropriations conference report deleted that provision, allowing 
detainees to be transferred to the United States for trial.

If we put them into our Federal system--I can speak this way because 
I am not an attorney, so I can stand back and cite the obvious. If we 
do that, then the rules of evidence are different.

There are a lot of these guys who are picked up, and even now they 
talk about Miranda rights. That blows my mind when I think about it--
when this goes on now and we have the opportunity to get these people 
and extract information from them. Thinking about the idea of trying 
them in the Federal court system where, if they cannot get a 
conviction--and many times they could not for one reason, which is that 
the rules of evidence are different.

When they were captured, they went by the rules of evidence for 
military tribunals. So we could have some who would be turned free, and 
many of them in the United States.

Recent polls show that a majority of Americans oppose closing Gitmo 
and moving detainees to the United States. By a margin of 2 to 1--which 
is huge in polls--those surveyed said Guantanamo should not be closed, 
and by more than 3 to 1 they oppose moving some of the accused 
terrorists housed there to prisons in the United States.

Again, one of the prisons the Obama administration talked about of 
the 17 prisons happened to be in Oklahoma. It should be obvious to 
everybody if we have 17 locations where we are housing terrorists, that 
becomes a magnet for terrorism--17 magnets in the United States.

A recent Fox News poll said President Obama made a mistake when he 
signed the order to close Gitmo. Seventy-seven percent of all Americans 
say that was a mistake, that Gitmo should not be closed, 60 percent of 
all Americans, up from 53 percent in April and 45 percent in January. 
You can see the trendlines. The vast majority--nearly two-thirds--is 
saying he should not close Gitmo and Gitmo prisoners should not be 
transferred into prisons in the United States. Sixty percent of all 
Americans say that is true. Sixty percent in polling is a huge number, 
a vast majority.

I encourage Senators who will be voting on this significant amendment 
to keep that in mind. Since President Obama announced he intended to 
close Gitmo, it has become widely circulated that these detainees could 
be transferred to American prisons for prosecution in U.S. criminal 
courts and potentially released in the United States. Moving detainees 
to prisons here would require significant investment in restructuring 
existing facilities and would cost taxpayers millions of dollars.

Currently, the United States only has one Supermax facility located 
in Florence, CO. According to the Bureau of Prisons, as of May 21, 
''only 1 bed was not filled at Supermax.'' So if we want to give 
maximum security to these people, such as Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, we 
better decide who is going to be in that one bed because we don't have 
the capacity. The capacity of all the high security Bureau of Prison 
facilities at the beginning of this month was 13,448 inmates, while the 
total prison population was approximately 20,000.

So what we are talking about is they are overcrowded, and that is 
flat not going to happen. Despite claims by Senator Durbin that the 
Supermax prisons in the United States are ready to receive Gitmo 
detainees, the Supermax prisons in the United States are at or above 
their maximum capacity.

FBI Director Robert Mueller said there is the very real possibility 
that the Gitmo detainees will recruit more terrorists from among the 
Federal inmate population and continue al-Qaida operations inside the 
walls of prison. That cannot happen in Gitmo because they are all 
terrorists there. That is how the New York synagogue bombers were 
recruited, in our own prison system.

In 2002, an entire wing of a jail in Alexandria, VA, was cleared out 
for the 9/11 ''20th hijacker,'' Zacarias Moussaoui, to be housed for 
his trial--just for one detainee. Bringing Gitmo detainees to the 
United States could also place America and its citizens at risk by 
inevitably creating a new set of targets for the jihadist terrorists. 
Gitmo, on the other hand, is a state-of-the-art prison. I cannot find 
anyone who has gone over there, including unfriendly media, media that 
was bent on closing Gitmo--once they go over there and see it, almost 
all of them change their mind. It is a state-of-the-art facility that 
provides humane treatment for all detainees. It is fully compliant with 
the Geneva Conventions and provides treatment and oversight that exceed 
any maximum security prison in the world, as attested to by human 
rights organizations, the Red Cross, Attorney General Holder, and an 
independent commission led by Admiral Walsh. This is state of the art, 
and this is not a place where torture takes place. It is the only 
facility of its kind in the world that was specifically designed to 
house and try these types of dangerous detainees.

If President Obama ever decides to visit Gitmo, I am sure he would 
equally


be impressed as everyone else, including, I might say, Attorney General 
Holder. He came back and gave a glowing report and said how great this 
was and, at the same time, said the President still wants to close it.

When you look at the Gitmo situation, there are, on average, two 
lawyers for every detainee. There are 127 doctors and nurses. The ratio 
is 1 to 2 in terms of health care specialists to take care of these 
prisoners. Here we are talking about health care in this country. Maybe 
they want to go to Gitmo. They would be a lot better off. Current 
treatment and oversight exceeds that of any maximum security prison in 
the world.

There is also a $12 million expeditionary legal complex. This is very 
significant because if we are going to do tribunals, we cannot do 
tribunals in our court system in the United States because it is not 
set up for that. Obviously, there are some things in testimony that 
takes place that have to be private. You cannot have these things go 
out because that would endanger American lives. We spent $12 million on 
this complex. It is a courtroom at Gitmo to try detainees, and 
specifically that is what it is there for. It is the only one of its 
kind in the world, and it provides a secure location to try detainees 
charged by the Federal Government. They have full access to sensitive 
and classified information, full access to defense lawyers, and 
protection by the full media, access by the press. But it is set up to 
take care of that specific type of an incarcerated individual.

Senator Harry Reid declared, in a press conference after my 
bipartisan amendment was adopted, that ''We will never allow terrorists 
to be released into the United States.'' I applaud Senator Reid for 
that statement and hope he will stay with that because that is 
something the American people are not willing to tolerate.

He went on to say he opposes imprisoning detainees on U.S. soil, 
saying:




 We don't want them around the United States . . . I can't 


 make it any more clear than the statement I have given to 


 you. We will never allow terrorists to be released in the 


 United States.


Senator Durbin said:




 The feeling was at this point we were defending the 


 unknown. We were being asked to defend a plan that hasn't 


 been announced.


I think Senator Durbin was correct then and is correct now.

There are lots of questions, very few answers. What is the impact? 
Let's say we close Gitmo. What is the impact of placing detainees in 
the U.S. prison system--pretrial and posttrial? Has an assessment been 
done to determine the risk of escape, as well as potentially creating 
targets in the United States for terrorist attacks? Will Gitmo 
detainees be segregated from the regular prison population? Keep in 
mind, these guys are trained to recruit. That would be a garden spot 
for them to get into the American prison system to recruit people to 
become terrorists. What facilities exist in the United States today 
that can hold these detainees? We talked about that. They tried to 
locate 17 facilities, and it will not work.

By the way, the State legislatures in each one of those States that 
have one of these facilities have passed resolutions or some type of a 
document saying: We don't want them in our States. That is what they 
are saying from the States, and we need to listen to them. One might 
ask, where will the military commissions be held--at Guantanamo or the 
United States? Obviously, if you close Guantanamo, you lose that 
facility. Assuming military commissions are held in Guantanamo, where 
will detainees who are convicted serve out their sentence, if not 
there, because there is no other place that has the capability of doing 
that. There are all these questions.

What additional constitutional rights will a detainee gain if they 
are tried in the United State versus Guantanamo?

Are there differences in the rights awarded to detainees tried in a 
Military Commission versus civilian court? Could location or geography 
affect the right afforded to detainees--somewhere in the U.S. versus 
Gitmo?

How do we handle protection of classified information during trials?

What are the long-term implications on future conflicts of trying 
these detainees in a civil court versus military commissions?

Why is the administration reading Miranda rights to some detainees 
captured or held in Iraq and Afghanistan? How many are being read 
Miranda rights? How many have invoked their rights?

What is the impact of requiring the reading of Miranda rights to 
terrorists captured on the battlefield and advising them they have the 
''right to remain silent''?

What if a detainee is found not guilty--where will he be released?

What does the administration plan to do when a Federal judge orders 
the release of a detainee but the administration knows is too dangerous 
to release of transfer?

What do you do with a detainee you cannot try or release due to 
national security concerns?

Despite not having a plan, the administration continues in its quest 
to empty Gitmo regardless of the cost or the risk.

The Obama administration initially talked with the small South 
Pacific island of Palau, population 20,000, to accept transfer of a 
group of 17 Chinese Muslims currently at Gitmo, called Uighurs, at the 
cost of some $200 million. That is $11.7 million per individual. This 
is not a cheap thing he is talking about doing. The total cost to build 
Gitmo was only $275 million. As I said, it has been on lease since 1903 
for $4,000 a year. The Wall Street Journal just yesterday had a 
government official who said that well over 50 detainees have been 
approved for transfer to other countries and that negotiations are 
continuing with Saudi Arabia to take a large group of Yemeni detainees. 
Attorney General Eric Holder has estimated that more than 50 detainees 
may end up on trial by U.S. authorities. This news comes as more and 
more Americans are growing opposed to the closure of Gitmo, placing 
them unnecessarily at risk in order to satisfy political goals.

I think we need to stop, sit back, take a deep breath, and look at 
some of the things that are going on today. The idea that we would have 
Miranda rights for terrorists, people who have killed Americans, is 
pretty outrageous.

Finally, on June 9, the Obama administration again went against the 
will of the Congress and the American people by transferring the first 
Gitmo detainee to the United States for his trial in New York City.

Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani has been indicted for the 1998 al-Qaida U.S. 
Embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania that killed more than 224 
people, including 12 Americans. Ghailani was later captured in Pakistan 
in 2004 while working for al-Qaida, preparing false documents. 
Intelligence shows he met both bin Laden and Khalid Shaikh Mohammed in 
Afghanistan and remained a close associate with al-Qaida until his 
capture in 2004.

This bonafide terrorist will have the privilege of a U.S. civilian 
court trial in the United States--I think it is New York. To me, it is 
inconceivable that could happen. The press reported that Ghailani was 
smiling when the charges were read to him in New York.

Despite the Obama administration's intentions, they will find 
themselves in a position where they cannot even try or safely transfer 
or release Gitmo detainees. As of May 2009, 74 transferred/released 
detainees have returned to the fight--74. These are the ones we 
captured again. We know they returned to the fight. How many more are 
there out there? If you release these people, they go right back to 
their practice of killing Americans. Former Guantanamo Bay inmate 
Mullah Zakir, also known as Abdullah Ghulam Rasoul, is leading the 
fight against the U.S. Marines in the Helmand Province in Afghanistan. 
He surrendered in north Afghanistan in 2001, was transferred to Gitmo 
in 2006, and then released. He is out there killing marines today. That 
is what is happening currently. There is no alternative to Gitmo.

I go through all this not to be disagreeable with anyone except to 
say there is an answer, and there is only one answer.

Today, we are considering the Defense authorization bill. I have an 
amendment to that bill. I now have, in a matter of 3 hours, 22 
cosponsors. This is amendment No. 1559 to the Defense authorization 
bill, S. 1390. This does something very simple. I like simple bills 
because they cannot be misunderstood. They are not like the health 
insurance bill with over 1,000 pages no


one has read. They are not like the cap-and-trade bill that passed the 
House with no one reading it, over 1,000 pages. This is just two pages. 
That is all. It is easy to read. Let me tell you what it says. I am 
wrong, it is one page. It says an amendment offered by Senator Inhofe:




 Sec. 1059. Prohibition on transfer of Guantanamo Detainees.



 No department or agency of the United States may



 (1) transfer any detainee of the United States housed at 


 Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to any facility in the 


 United States or its territories.


That is No. 1.

No. 2 is, we cannot ''construct, improve, modify, or otherwise 
enhance any facility in the United States or its territories for the 
purpose of hous-
ing any detainee described in para-
graph (1) . . .''

No. 3: We cannot ''permanently or temporarily house or otherwise 
incarcerate any detainee described in paragraph (1) in the United 
States or its territories.''

That is a very simple solution. It is all in three sentences on one 
page.

I have a feeling there are going to be many people who know that we 
are on the right side of this issue, know that the American people are 
overwhelmingly, by more than two to one, in support of an amendment 
such as this, and are going to offer some amendment full of loopholes 
that will still allow them to close it. It will sound good. But this is 
the only one out there.

Mr. President, I say to my colleagues, if their interest is to really 
do something about keeping Gitmo open, there is only one vehicle out 
there. We are on it right now--the Defense authorization bill. That is 
amendment No. 1559. All it does is prohibit us from transferring any 
detainee from Gitmo to any facility in the United States of America or 
its territories; it prohibits us from constructing, improving, 
modifying, or otherwise enhancing any facility in the United States or 
its territories for the purpose of housing any detainee described in 
paragraph 1 above--that is the terrorist; and No. 3, it prohibits us 
from temporarily or otherwise incarcerating any detainee described in 
paragraph 1 in the United States or its territories. Period. That is 
all it does.

I say to those two-thirds people of America, there is a vehicle now 
we can use to make sure that facility, one of the really true state-of-
the-art resources we have in this country, stays open and keeping those 
detainees, those terrorists out of America. If you want to keep them 
out of America, this is the way to do it.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.