# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `f7d1fa96c08d86001bae03e6b8c7df9a`
`Mr. BIDEN — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Madam President, there are many statements in the 
resolution by the Senator from New Hampshire that are true. It is a 
true statement that the President has the power to ''deploy troops and 
direct military campaigns during wartime.'' But that presupposes that a 
war has been properly authorized by Congress because that power exists 
only in wartime, or in certain emergency circumstances. The President 
does not, however, have the power under the Constitution to initiate a 
war.

It is literally true that Congress has the power of the purse, and in 
that capacity has the moral responsibility to adequately support the 
troops in the field, once we are at war. This administration has failed 
in that responsibility in not equipping our soldiers in Iraq with 
adequate armor, in not having an adequate plan to stabilize Iraq after 
the initial invasion, and in not caring for our soldiers properly when 
they return home.

But this resolution is not balanced. It does not set forth a 
statement about Congress's powers under the Constitution to authorize 
the use of force under article I. Nor does it say anything about the 
authority of Congress to change the mission of U.S. forces, once a war 
has commenced. This silence about Congress's power might be interpreted 
to suggest that the President's powers as Commander in Chief to 
initiate war are unlimited, and that Congress's sole responsibility is 
to fund a war that the President initiates. That is not what the 
Constitution says, and I cannot vote for anything that might be so 
read.

Because the Gregg resolution lacks balance, I cannot vote for it. I 
will vote instead for the resolution by Senator Murray, which presents 
a more complete statement about the allocation of powers under the 
Constitution.