---
---

# COMMEMORATING THE LIFE OF SERGEANT THOMAS C. RAY, III
## `f7d88677061d1de25e4ed1a706554f63`
`Mr. SHULER — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. SHULER. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 
1020, which recognizes the service and sacrifices that the members of 
our Armed Forces and their families have made during this time of war. 
I rise with a heavy heart, because the citizens of western North 
Carolina were recently reminded of this sacrifice by the death of my 
constituent, National Guardsman Sergeant Thomas C. Ray, III from 
Weaverville, North Carolina.

Sgt. Ray joined the Navy in 1985 as a medical specialist and served 3 
years of active duty. In 2006, Sgt. Ray joined the Army National Guard 
and shortly thereafter became a military police officer. Sgt. Ray was 
assigned to the I05th Military Police Battalion in Asheville, but 
volunteered to serve with 1132nd Military Police Company when it 
mobilized in June to go to Iraq. In January of this year, Sgt. Ray was 
awarded the Army Commendation Medal for his service as a gunner. Sgt. 
Ray was killed in Baghdad, Iraq on March 22, 2008 when a roadside bomb 
blew up near his vehicle.

Madam Speaker, Sgt. Ray exemplified the bravery and dedication of the 
men and women of the Armed Forces, and his life of service stands as a 
tribute to the members of the North Carolina National Guard who have 
answered the call since before the founding of our Nation. In the words 
of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Sgt. Ray ''stands in the unbroken 
line of patriots who have dared to die that freedom might live, and 
grow, and increase its blessings. Freedom lives, and through it, he 
lives--in a way that humbles the undertakings of most men.''

I offer a prayer of comfort for the family of Sgt. Ray, including his 
wife, Linda, his daughter, Sydney, and his mother, Ozelle.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues today to vote for this important 
resolution that will give due honor and respect to the service that 
members of the Armed Services have dedicated to this country. I also 
ask my colleagues to join me in expressing sympathy for all our fallen 
soldiers and pray for the swift and safe return of those who continue 
to serve our Nation in harms way.
