---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `f7e255326fe91bccb837df56fe0e9907`
`Mr. AKIN — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. AKIN. Madam Speaker, in accordance with House Republican 
Conference standards, and Clause 9 of Rule XXI, I submit the following 
member requests for the record regarding H.R. 5658, the National 
Defense Authorization Act of 2009.

Project: C-17A Globernaster aircraft

Account: Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: The Boeing Company

Address of Requesting Entity: 1200 Wilson Blvd, Arlington, VA 22209

Description of Request: Per Air Force Unfunded Priority List (UPL) 
#6, C-17 (+15 aircraft), $3.9B. procures 15 C-17s, keeping only active 
strategic airlift production line open. The C-17 is the world's most 
effective and flexible strategic/tactical airlifter. The C-17 has 
revolutionized the movement of troops and equipment into battle by 
allowing their delivery to parts of the world that was previously not 
accessible by conventional airlifters. Additional C-I7s are essential 
to the warfighter.

Project: Hyperspectral Imaging for Improved Force Protection (HYPER-
IFP)

Account: Army RDT&E, (CERDEC, NVESD, Special Projects)

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Clean Earth Technologies, LLC.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13378 Lakefront Drive, Earth City, MO, 
USA

Description of Request: Provide $5,400,000 to complete the design, 
assembly, integration, test and evaluation of the Hyperspectral 
Integrated Force Protection sensor system (Hyper-IFP). Approximately 
40% will be used for engineering development modeling and simulation; 
30% will be used for subsystems assembly and testing; 15% will be used 
for system integration and ground testing; 15% will be used for a 
deployed full system field test and evaluation. The request is 
consistent with the Army NVESD Special Projects office mission to 
develop advanced sensor systems that provide an operational advantage 
or that increase survivability of the warfighter. Taxpayer value is 
substantially enhanced by dual/multi use capacity to serve a number of 
Homeland Security (DHS) missions in addition to military force 
protection.

Project: Short Range Ballistic Missile Defense

Account: Defensewide RDT&E

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: LaBarge Corporation

Address of Requesting Entity: 9900 Clayton Road, St. Louis, Missouri 
63124

Description of Request: $10M over the President's request of $44.9M 
to allow the program to get back on track for its planned 2010 IOC 
which will ensure US troops are protected as quickly as possible 
against the short range ballistic missile threat. This funding will 
allow the development team to accelerate design. development and 
testing that was lost due to past funding cuts; and will initiate 
concept development and risk reduction efforts to integrate the weapon 
into existing Army anti-missile systems. This request is consistent 
with the intended and authorized purpose of the Defensewide RDT&E 
account.

Project: Heuristic Internet Protocol Packet Inspection Engine

Account: Army, RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: TechGuard Security, LLC.

Address of Requesting Entity: 743 Spirit 40 Park Drive, Chesterfield, 
MO 63005.

Description of Request: $3.5 million solely for the research, 
development and test of Heuristic Internet Protocol Packet Inspection 
Engine (HIPPIE). The advanced concept HIPPIE technology can be rapidly 
prototyped and deployed in a filtering appliance that sits in front of 
an existing firewall or router, and uses unique filtering algorithms to 
quickly classify large numbers of packets--i.e., the country of origin 
for an IP address--without using slow and CPU intensive rule sets. The 
objective of the program is to miniaturize the HIPPIE through the use 
of nanotechnology to the point where it can be placed on a chip and 
placed directly on a computer for offensive or defensive cyber warfare 
use.

Project: Mission Execution Technology Implementation.

Account: Army, RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Westar Aerospace & Defense Group, 
Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 36 Research Park Court, St. Charles MO 
63304, U.S.A.

Description of Request: Provide $10,000,000 for technology 
improvements urgently needed by combat units in Operation Enduring 
Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. This program will result in 
significant increases in mission effectiveness and safety for our war-
fighters. Funding is required to continue development of enterprise-
enabled, integrated Aviation tools and provide this ability to all Army 
Aviation systems to include UH-60 series, OH-58D, AH-64D, Fixed Wing 
and UAS systems. The complete integrated aviation solution includes 
implementing the automated maintenance test flight tool, automated 
weight and balance software, and integration with current logistics and 
Aviation Mission Planning systems. The Aviation community has 
consistently requested an enhanced, fully Automated Maintenance Test 
Flight Tool for in-cockpit use, eliminating manual and repetitive 
Maintenance Test Pilot tasks and significantly reducing the labor 
required to return aircraft to full service. This solution would also


fulfill the Army directive for a paperless system, storing the 
maintenance test flight check-sheets into the Common Logistics 
Operating Environment, eliminating the paper form. Improved integration 
of automated weight and balance tools with the CLOE and the Aviation 
System of System infrastructure is critical, eliminating error-prone 
manual entries and expanding aircraft flight envelopes by eliminating 
manual lookup and interpolation of paper performance charts. The amount 
of time in calculating and recalculating loads during OPTEMPO will be 
greatly reduced from hours to mere minutes. This effort will include 
the application of commercial Aviation best-practices to data and data 
processes in support of air worthiness, and the development of 
processes to support air worthiness assessments of unmanned aircraft 
systems (UAS). Air-worthiness of UAS will improve safety in training 
and combat operations as well as permit the routine use of these 
critical capabilities within national airspace during natural disasters 
and homeland defense operations.

Project: Ultra-Wideband Reactive Waveform Modulator.

Account: Army RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: X-COM Systems, LLC.

Address of Requesting Entity: 106 North College Avenue, Warrensburg, 
MO 64093.

Description of Request: $1.5M to support the development and testing 
of an ultra-wideband reactive waveform modulator (UWB-RWM) for IED 
countermeasures at the Intelligence & Information Warfare Directorate 
(12WD), Fort Monmouth, NJ. The UWB-RWM will be a COTS solution designed 
to support and transition into current Joint Counter Radio Controlled 
Improvised Explosive Device Electronic Warfare (JCREW) efforts. By 
providing a significant performance improvement over currently 
available technology, the UWB-RWM's adaptability and scalahility will 
facilitate a future-proof capability for transmitting ever-evolving IED 
defeat waveforms of increasing complexity.
