# OVERSEAS CONTRACTOR REFORM ACT
## `f7efe62613e7defbe377c7e7f5af36e4`
`Mr. DINGELL — 15 September 2010`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5366, the 
Overseas Contracting Reform Act, which provides an important and 
necessary recourse for our government when


contractors violate federal law. Specifically, the legislation requires 
the automatic proposal for debarment of any contractor found to be in 
violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, FCPA, which prohibits 
American companies and individuals from unlawfully influencing foreign 
officials.

I commend the sponsor of this legislation, Representative Peter Welch 
of Vermont, for his work on this matter. Since the brutal shooting 
incident at Baghdad's Nisour Square in which guards employed by the 
private security contractor Blackwater Worldwide, now Xe Services, 
allegedly shot and killed 17 innocent and unarmed Iraqi civilians, I 
have worked to bring such contractors within the purview of U.S. law 
and to hold them accountable for their actions. Unfortunately, even 
after the Blackwater shooting gained considerable public attention, 
reports indicated that not only did contractors remain a significant 
part of the U.S. presence in Iraq and Afghanistan, but they also 
continued to serve in inappropriate roles such as conducting 
interrogations of suspected terrorists. All the while, the laws which 
govern them remain vague.

As many of my colleagues and I have noted for several years, there is 
an egregious lack of both accountability and transparency for such 
firms and their employees. Although the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
FAR, enables government officials to initiate suspension and debarment 
proceedings where the contractor has committed an offense ''that 
seriously and directly affects the present responsibility of a 
government contractor or subcontractor,'' among other things, no 
official used this authority to initiate such proceedings with 
Blackwater. Moreover, as a recent Senate Armed Services Committee 
investigation underscores, Blackwater was able to secure new contracts 
by creating several dozen subsidiaries for the sole purpose of 
concealing its parent companies' identity. Contracting officers claim 
they weren't even aware that they were awarding contracts to a company 
under Blackwater's control.

It is clear that the existence of authority to debar under the FAR 
is, in itself, insufficient to trigger debarment proceedings, perhaps 
because agency officials are unwilling to initiate debarment 
proceedings even when just cause is shown. That is why H.R. 5366 is an 
important piece of legislation. It will provide that companies 
automatically be proposed for debarment if they are found to be in 
violation of the FCPA. The Department of Justice is investigating 
whether Blackwater employees bribed Iraqi officials to allow them to 
continue doing business in Iraq, an obvious violation of the FCPA. 
Under H.R. 5366, if Blackwater is found guilty, the firm will 
automatically be proposed for debarment.

Mr. Speaker, all loopholes for private security contractors working 
overseas should have been closed long ago. Contractors and their 
employees must be held accountable for their actions overseas, 
especially during war time. This is not just important for the 
America's reputation for upholding justice and the rule of law, but for 
the safety and security of our troops and civilians serving overseas. 
Failing to do so undermines American national security interests. I 
urge my colleagues to join me in voting for H.R. 5366.