---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `f7f6b38b33a4edb87972b559b3d54505`
`Ms. DeGETTE — 23 March 2007`

---


Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1591.

In considering what to say about H.R. 1591, I looked back at what I 
said in the Congressional Record about House Resolution 861, an Iraq 
resolution from the 109th Congress in June of last year. I lamented the 
fact that 2,500 soldiers had died, 18,000 had been wounded, and 320 
billion dollars had been spent or appropriated. I said that enough was 
enough and that it was time to begin redeploying troops to the 
periphery of the conflict and bring some of them home.

Sadly, in the last nine months, we have lost over 700 more troops and 
seen more than 5,000 additional soldiers wounded. We have little to 
show for our efforts, as Iraq is still in chaos and there is no peace 
in sight. I am afraid that if we do not take a different approach that 
this pattern will continue--progress in Iraq will not be made and 
increasing numbers of American soldiers will suffer. H.R. 1591 is a 
new, reasonable approach.

Like most Americans, I want Iraq to succeed as a stable democracy. 
But Iraqis have to want this too and actually work towards this goal in 
a meaningful way. H.R. 1591 encourages the Iraqi government to do this 
by offering our continued assistance, if it meets certain political and 
military benchmarks. These markers were laid out by President Bush in 
January. A further incentive for Iraq to take more responsibility for 
its own security is the knowledge that, under H.R. 1591, we will not be 
there forever. There will now be a date certain, August 2008, after 
which the Iraqi government could not longer rely on our soldiers for 
its security.

This is not just the right course for Iraq, it is the right course 
for America. After 4 long years, thousands dead and wounded, and 
hundreds of billions spent, it is time that this war comes to an end.

Ending the war in Iraq will stop the losses and devastating injuries 
inflicted on our troops. It will also allow us to redirect the billions 
that would otherwise be spent on Iraq to meet needed priorities here at 
home, such as providing health insurance to low-income children. I ask 
my colleagues to keep in mind this tremendous opportunity cost should 
we not stop the war.

While the legislation before us today will bring the war in Iraq to 
close over a reasonable period of time, it also supports our troops in 
the field. H.R. 1591 appropriates almost $100 billion for ongoing 
military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. I strongly support our 
troops who have done everything asked of them with dignity, courage, 
and skill. It is with their safety and security in mind that I will 
vote in favor of this bill.

Beyond Iraq, H.R. 1591 contains over $20 billion to meet other 
emergency priorities. These include resources for veterans' health 
care, recovery from the devastation of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, 
relief for farmers and ranchers from years of drought, and money to 
states for the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP).

Enacting H.R. 1591 is thus important to address these emergencies, 
support our troops in the field, and end our involvement in the war in 
Iraq. I strongly encourage all Members of the House to support its 
passage.