---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `f80b5de2698f32f67132f8615ab90de1`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Madam President, I want to take some time, as we 
contemplate what is going to happen with the supplemental bill we just 
passed because, frankly, I am in a state of shock over the casual 
dismissal of the opinions of the American people, in huge majorities, 
who say: We have had enough of this war, and we want to make a change. 
They want us to start to position ourselves in a manner that would 
allow us to bring our people home.

Not far from this Senate floor, in the middle of the National Mall, 
is a place of stone and water, of strength and reflection. It is a 
place that is important to me and, I think, important to the country as 
a whole. It is where we honor those who served and those who died in 
World War II.

I proudly wore the uniform of my country during that war. I do not 
consider myself a hero, but I did my duty to the best of my ability. I 
and 16 million others went to war because our mission was clear: defeat 
the enemy who attacked us. And while the battles were fought across the 
ocean, the entire country united. They all sacrificed. That was the 
message: sacrifice, sacrifice at home, use less gas, turn off the 
lights, reduce energy consumption, black out the beachfront places or 
coastal areas so the enemy could not see the lights of the cities. Even 
with rising injuries and casualties in World War II, America kept its 
resolve because we believed in our leaders.

How times have changed.

There is one simple reason the American people have lost faith in 
this war effort: It has become clear our leaders are not providing us 
with the truth. And the chief purveyor of misstatements is Vice 
President Cheney. He chooses to say whatever he wants to, to advance 
his agenda. But the agenda has now, we know, resulted in the deaths of 
thousands of Americans, thousands of Iraqis. It is time to say: Enough 
is enough.

I want to review some of the outlandish statements the Vice President 
has made about this war. On the eve of the invasion, in March 2003, 
Vice President Dick Cheney assured the Nation that ''we will be greeted 
as liberators.''

I ask the question: How dare he make a statement such as that--
without knowledge, without any idea of what the consequences of that 
action might be. We will be greeted as liberators?

He went on to say the fight would be ''weeks rather than months.''

In June of 2005, Vice President Cheney assured us the insurgency in 
Iraq is ''in the last throes.'' That was almost 2 years ago. Ask our 
people in uniform, ask our people in combat, ask those who are facing 
another deployment after having been there once or even twice--ask them 
what they think about that statement, about the accuracy of those 
remarks.

Earlier this year, even after the Pentagon admitted there was no 
evidence at all of a connection between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaida, 
the Vice President said there was a connection. If you say it, maybe 
you can convince people, even if it is not the truth.

And now, this week, we have our Vice President speaking out against 
this bill we just passed, again making outlandish claims.

You have to ask yourself a question: Who is still listening to those 
comments and giving them any credibility? Unfortunately, there are 
people, despite his outrageous and unsubstantiated claims--claims such 
as the ''insurgency is in its last throes''--who tend to believe him. 
He is, after all, the Vice President of the United States. It is a 
prestigious job. There is an automatic assumption that credibility goes 
to the occupant of that position.

We may never know the real motivation behind this administration's 
drive to Iraq, but we do know the following: They presented false 
intelligence to the American people and our allies.

We have seen some of those responsible, credible people, who believed 
in the case that was being made by the intelligence reports--look at 
one of the great figures in American contemporary history, Colin 
Powell--a general, Chief of Staff. I remember his speech at the United 
Nations providing evidence of materials that confirmed there were 
weapons of mass destruction there. And now this man, who has a lifetime 
built on honesty and credibility, has said he regrets those statements. 
But we do not hear that pause, that reflection, coming from the 
President or the Vice President of the United States.

The administration knowingly misled the country about Iraq's nuclear 
ambitions in President Bush's 2003 State of the Union Address.

In a recent CBS News poll, 66 percent of the American people 
disapproved of the way President Bush is handling this situation with 
Iraq. That disapproval has continued to build. If you look at some of 
the polling data we have seen over the last couple years, less and less 
of the people in the country believe we are doing a good job with the 
situation in Iraq, as portrayed by the President.

On Monday, President Bush said:




 There's been some progress.


That statement shows the President is living in an alternate reality.

On that same day--Monday--10 American troops were killed, 9 of them 
in a single attack. Since the beginning of this war, more than 3,300 of 
our people in uniform have died.


One of those people was a fellow from Toms River, NJ, Marine Cpl 
Thomas Saba. He served with the Marines' Flying Tigers. He volunteered 
to extend


his tour of duty after his squadron was deployed to Iraq. He died with 
his comrades in February when their helicopter was shot down by 
insurgents. Corporal Saba is one of 77 people from my home State of New 
Jersey to see their last sunset in Iraq. Ten more have died in 
Afghanistan.

Beyond these casualties, nearly 25,000 of our troops have left the 
combat theater with serious wounds. More than 800 of them have lost at 
least one limb. We have spent mountains of taxpayer money in Iraq. We 
have spent $400 billion, going now at the rate of $3 billion a week. 
What have we gotten for our investment? A disaster. That is the reality 
of Iraq, not the endless and empty picture of optimism the Vice 
President and others in the administration and the President continue 
to paint. ''Extend our victories.'' What victories are they talking 
about? I don't see any victories. We see more threats. Not only to our 
people--that is the most serious one--not only to our reputation, but 
to our leadership in the world as it disintegrates in front of us as 
this conflict continues.

We need a new course, and we need it now. This supplemental provides 
that new course. We hope the President will reflect a little bit, 
instead of the braggadocio attitude and false stories about how 
Democrats want to surrender. That is the most offensive thing. 
Democrats want to surrender? Senator Inouye, a Medal of Honor winner 
here, and other people who fought in Vietnam and other places. We want 
to surrender America? It is an outrage.

Outside my office, we have a memorial and it shows the ''Faces of the 
Fallen''--photographs. Some of them are blank, but they have a name and 
a location of the person--the faces of the fallen from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Typically it carries each picture, and we have about 3,000 
of them. It takes a while to get the pictures together. People walk by, 
they stop and pause and write notes in a journal we have there. It 
includes the name and age, the rank and the battalion or company they 
served in, the cause of death of each of the Nation's fallen 
servicemembers, inscribed with their photo on the memorial. Families, 
friends, and visitors search those photos on a daily basis looking for 
people from their State, from their area, people who many knew and 
loved and miss. One woman found a picture of her son up there and wrote 
an inscription in our journal.

As they search these pictures, some write notes in a book of 
reflections. I want to share two of those reflections. A person named 
Prudence Hart from New Jersey wrote:




 We honor our soldiers for answering the call of their 


 Nation. We must honor them and this Nation by never allowing 


 another President to wage war as this one has.


Another person, Jay Miller from Rhode Island, wrote:




 We are at a pivotal point in our country's history. Our 


 leaders must take a stand and use their constitutional powers 


 to end this madness.


To Prudence Hart, Jay Miller, and every American, I say: We are with 
you. We do honor those who have bravely taken up their task, able and 
willing to do it. Some of those troops are the third deployment away 
from a spouse, children, community, job. They are the ones making the 
sacrifice, and they are the ones whom we want to honor. We want to 
honor them by remembering those who paid the ultimate price, but we 
want to honor them further by bringing them home and giving them 
appropriate post-service treatment.

I wish we were treating our veterans in the same honorable manner in 
which they were recruited. We have failed in many instances. We failed, 
even as people criticize Democrats and those who disagree with them, 
even as they try to discredit us as wanting to surrender, when they 
didn't provide the right equipment, whether the humvees were 
sufficiently armored, or whether they had the proper flak jackets.

I went to Iraq some years ago, and when I asked the people I met from 
New Jersey: What is it we could do to make their job better and protect 
them more, one of them said, Senator--and I was with four other 
colleagues--Senators, the flak jackets you are wearing, the body armor 
you are wearing is the latest and the best. We don't have it. People 
who were in the coalition have that, but we don't. What else? They 
said: Our humvees are not sufficiently armored to protect us. We know 
what has happened.

So if we want to talk about honoring our troops, where was the 
administration while Halliburton was stealing from the country with 
food and shelter and had a fine of millions of dollars imposed by the 
auditors from the Defense Department? Shame on them. In the war I 
fought in, there wasn't anybody except a traitor who would do something 
that might help the enemy like having a sham corporation in the Cayman 
Islands, a branch in Dubai where they then did business with Iran--
Iran, which supplies weapons and encouragement to insurgents who want 
to kill our people there. It is shocking that we see that, and when we 
hear these false tales coming from the Vice President of the United 
States, when he talks about victory, and I am paraphrasing: victory 
within our grasp, within our reach. The American people don't believe 
it, and I tell my colleagues I don't believe it, and a lot of my 
colleagues don't believe it.

We had a vote one day that was significant. It was 56 to 44, and it 
included seven of our colleagues from the Republican side, people who 
had the courage to stand up and say: Look, we are not ashamed to be 
Republicans, and we are not ashamed to be Democrats, but we think this 
policy is wrong. We had enough votes--not to get cloture, but to 
establish a significant majority. I know some of our colleagues over 
there who are loyal to the party and to the President who don't like a 
bit what he is asking of the American people now, and asking of us, 
labeling this bill as a porkbarrel thing.


I can't get the word ''surrender'' out of my mind.

I sit on the Appropriations Committee, and I was at a conference 
committee of the House and the Senate the other night, and the ranking 
Republican on the House side said the Democrats want to surrender just 
when General Petraeus is coming in--surrender. This bill is our stand, 
the American stand. It begins to set a timetable for us to come home--
not to run away from our responsibilities. Our responsibility has been 
more than met. But we are even willing to leave enough of a cadre there 
to say: OK, we will help the Iraqis learn to defend themselves. We will 
help the Iraqis to reconstruct their society. We will help even to do 
some counterterrorism and counterinsurgencies.

It is time to come home. It is time to come home, and I hope the 
President of the United States will follow the demands of the American 
people and a major number of people who oppose where we are, a huge 
majority.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.