# HONORING LANCE CORPORAL ROBERT LYNCH
## `f82a3ce212efc1bd27cec6828f65932f`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Lance Corporal 
Robert Lynch who was taken from us far too soon when he and two other 
Marines were killed in Iraq by an IED. In Louisville, the hearts of his 
family and friends are full of grief as they mourn this tremendous 
loss, but we are also full of pride as we celebrate the life of an 
American hero who made the ultimate sacrifice.

Robbie's heroism began well before his service in the Marines. At a 
young age, he conquered Tourette syndrome and became a charismatic 
joker, an eloquent poet and a caring and empathetic young man.

At Seneca High School, he enrolled in the ROTC as a freshman, 
becoming an instant favorite among the faculty and his classmates 
alike. In fact, to many, it seemed Robbie was friends with everyone, 
classmates, teachers, administrators, clerks, everyone. And in Robbie, 
or Jax, as he nicknamed himself, they had a friend who would send 
people into hysterics when times were light or cut through the tension 
with a joke that lightened the mood. In Iraq he used that sense of 
humor to keep up the spirits and morale of his fellow warriors.

But people were drawn to Robbie for more than his affability. Robbie 
was also the one you knew you could depend on, the one you would go to 
if you needed help, support or simply a friend. That sentiment was 
shared by the many at home who loved him and those who served with him 
in Okinawa in the 1st Battalion, 12th Marine Regiment, 3rd Marine 
Division, III Marine Expeditionary Force.

Robbie dreamed of going to Hollywood to sing. He wrote songs and 
poems that expressed, among other things, his passion for justice and 
freedom. Tragically, his devotion to service eclipsed his artistic 
aspirations, and that dream will not be realized. Still, his words 
remain with us, and I'd like to share just a few.

He wrote, ''I don't plan on being a hero to the world. I just want to 
try to help make it a better one.'' Clearly, Robbie underestimated 
himself, for in just 20 short years on the planet we are better for 
having him here, and he is a hero to us all.

Today I'm introducing legislation to rename the Fairdale, Kentucky, 
Post Office the Lance Corporal Robert A. Lynch Memorial Post Office, so 
that it may stand as a testament to his heroics and strong character. 
For his selfless devotion to all of us in the United States, he 
deserves our recognition and thanks. For their sacrifice, his family 
deserves our support. We are poorer for the loss of him but we, as a 
community and a country, are better off for the short time we had him.

I urge my colleagues to join me today in honoring Lance Corporal 
Robert Lynch, a patriot, a poet, and a good man.
