---
---

# None
## `f82b9d48e5d196f4bcaefc298eaaa91c`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 23 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the 
House, and I can share with you on this day of the State of the Union 
we all look forward to hearing what the President/Commander in Chief 
has to share not only with the country but the world, and we hope that 
he will bring words of wisdom and unity to the House floor. This will 
be the President's seventh opportunity coming to the floor to share 
with us the needs of the Nation. And I hope that he speaks on behalf of 
the entire Nation.

As you know, the 30-Something Working Group has been coming to the 
floor for the last 3 years sharing with the Members about what was 
going on under the Capitol dome and what wasn't going on under the 
Capitol dome. And we come today in the spirit of bipartisanship, Mr. 
Speaker, and I would also like to continue to highlight bipartisanship, 
because that is what the American people have called for and that is 
what we have delivered.

And when I say ''we,'' I am saying a majority of the Members of the 
House of Representatives, and you can sprinkle in some Republican votes 
in achieving that. And I am glad that on a number of votes as relates 
to the Medicare prescription drug price negotiating, all Democrats on 
the floor voted for that, 24 Republicans voted for it, too. They voted 
with their constituents.

The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, just about all the Democrats 
on the floor voting on behalf, 216 with 37 Republicans joining us on 
that vote, it was 253, which is a good majority of the House voting in 
the affirmative. That is bipartisan.

The Fair Minimum Wage Act, Mr. Speaker, that passed on January 10, 
which was a recorded vote, there were 315 yeas in the affirmative, all 
Democrats on the floor at that time voted for it, 82 Republicans joined 
Democrats in voting on that bill together, Mr. Speaker.

Again, in the implementation of the 9/11 Commission recommendations, 
which we all know, Mr. Speaker, was a bipartisan piece of work by 
individuals that were appointed by the President, the leadership, and 
the House and Senate at that time, with two bipartisan chairmen, one 
Republican and the vice chair was Democrat, all Democrats on the floor 
voted, 231, and 68 Republicans. That brought that vote to 299.

I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, as we continue to move on and 
as we look at the student loan vote, as we look at a number of the 
votes that have come here to the floor, a great vote today as relates 
to pensions for those that step out of the line, Members of the House 
that step out of line and Members of the Senate, that their pensions 
will be on the line. Not one vote against that measure.

In that spirit, I know, on behalf of the Democratic side of the 
aisle, the Speaker, majority leader, Democratic whip, the chairman of 
our caucus, the vice chair of our caucus, and other elected leadership 
within the Democratic Caucus are looking to continue this bipartisan 
spirit that we have adopted here.



As you know, in the 109th Congress, Mr. Speaker, I used to always 
share with the Members that bipartisanship is only allowed if the 
majority allows it. I think that on some issues we will see issues 
where we won't be able to see eye to eye and there will be some 
partisan votes on this floor. That is just the reality of life here in 
Washington, D.C., but it should not be the rule. It should be the 
exception. And I want to commend all of those Members that are moving 
in a bipartisan spirit.

Now, I must say the winds of bipartisanship are here on the floor. I 
am sad to report that on many of those votes the Republican leadership 
did not vote with the majority of the U.S. House of Representatives, 
including Republicans that did vote on those measures. I say this to 
promote a bipartisan spirit here when the State of the Union, when the 
President comes in and gives his speech tonight; when he comes to speak 
to the American people in the U.S. House, the U.S. Congress, Judiciary, 
all branches of the military that will be represented here tonight, 
Cabinet officers that will be represented here tonight, hopefully 
deliver a message that we can move forward as a unit, as all Americans, 
so something we can all grasp.



I think it is important to move in that direction.

Now, on our side of many of these issues, when I say ''our side,'' I 
am saying the Democratic side where we have talked about six in 2006, 
where Republicans have joined us in those efforts because they wanted 
to vote for it all along but their leadership would not allow them to 
do that. We want to continue. We want to lead by example. We want the 
American people to know that we are leading on behalf of the country, 
not just one side versus the other. We do not want to create that kind 
of environment; but when it has to take place, it has to take place.

Tonight, Senator Webb, Virginia, will be delivering the Democratic 
response to the President, and I think it is important if we can see 
eye to eye on a policy in Iraq because right now, as you know, a number 
of the Senators on the other side of the Capitol dome have disagreed 
with the surge policy or with the escalation of troops policy that we 
have now that the President has stepped forward with. Many Members of 
the House on both sides of the aisle disagree with that policy.

As you know, Mr. Speaker, a number of Americans spoke not only to 
Democratic candidates but to Republican candidates about a solution in 
Iraq versus just identifying a problem and continuing to add on to the 
unfortunate situation of U.S. troops losing their lives in Iraq.

I think it is also important for us to know that for us to work in a 
bipartisan way the President cannot continue to say, just because I 
have the power to deploy troops along with my advisers that I am going 
to do it. I think a level of responsibility has to kick in.

Mr. Speaker, I was talking to a group earlier today, and I shared 
with them that the watch word for the 110th Congress should be 
''responsibility,'' responsibility on both sides of the aisle to make 
sure that we can fight our way out of the record deficit that we have 
now and to be able to stick with our pay-as-we-go rules that we put in 
place; to make sure that we govern on behalf of all the American people 
need it be young or old, rich or poor; that we govern on behalf of 
Americans and not on behalf of the special interests; and to make sure 
that our children's children and we have safe, clean water, air to 
breath; and that we can provide health care.

Now, saying all of that, it cannot be my way or the highway. Mr. 
Speaker, the President has put forth a commission to look at Social 
Security more than two times, and at the end of all of those 
commissions, the President has come back and said we need to privatize 
Social Security. That is a my-way-or-highway approach to governing.

I think it is important that the President come to this floor tonight 
and the Congress respond in a way that we can work together, we can 
work together to make America better. We can work together to make sure 
that our troops in Iraq, hopefully more sooner than later, can be 
redeployed, and that we can call not only on the Iraqi Government but 
other countries throughout the world to take part in the security of 
that region. As long as we continue to have an escalation in troops 
without any questions asked, we are going to have problems.

Now, I am glad to be joined here by my good colleague and friend from 
the great State of Ohio, Niles, Ohio, and we have spent many an hour on 
the floor here talking about these issues, but I was sharing with the 
Speaker and with the Members the fact when the President comes here 
tonight that it is important that it is a message that all Americans 
can embrace, that we deal with the serious issues so that we can get on 
with the work of the American people, because shortly after he gives 
his speech, he is going to send his budget to Capitol Hill, and that is 
going to have a lot to do with the way this Congress is going to 
function in this first session of the 110th Congress.

Hopefully, we will be able to pass a budget that will work on behalf 
of the American people, but it cannot be a my-way-or-the-highway kind 
of approach that it has been in the past. That did not work well, even 
when his party had the majority here in the Congress. Imagine what will 
happen, and they do have the minority in this Congress.

But we are willing, Mr. Speaker, to work in a bipartisan way to make 
sure we can get something done. I think that is very, very important. I 
think that is what the American people are asking for, and I yield to 
my friend.