---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f832a2d552a835fd73f37b5c0d168325`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. I thank the gentleman.

We are debating a simple, straightforward resolution. Clause 1 says, 
''Congress and the American people will continue to support and protect 
the members of the United States Armed Forces who are serving or have 
served bravely and honorably in Iraq.''

Every Member of Congress, despite outrageous allegations from the 
Republican side of the aisle from some, fully supports our troops and 
wants them to have the best equipment available to accomplish this 
mission. The disagreement is over the strategy that determines their 
mission.

The Republicans don't want to have a debate over that strategy. They 
are trying to conflate support for the troops with support for the 
President's failed stay-the-course strategy dressed up with a little 
bit of escalation.

But as President Theodore Roosevelt said during World War I, standing 
by a President, whether right or wrong, is not only unpatriotic and 
servile, it is morally treasonable to the American public.

Supporting the troops doesn't require supporting the failed policies 
of this President and his administration. The Republicans don't want to 
debate the conduct of the war and the future strategy in Iraq. The 
former Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, Peter 
Hoekstra, wrote a letter to his colleagues saying, ''This debate should 
not be about the surge or its details. This debate should not even be 
about the Iraq war to date, mistakes that have been made, or whether we 
can or cannot win militarily. If we let the Democrats force us into a 
debate on the surge or the current situation in Iraq, we lose.''

So change the subject. Make things up.

There is a massive propaganda effort on the part of many Republicans 
to distract and dissemble. They have trotted out the tired and 
thoroughly discredited catch phrase, ''If we don't fight them there, we 
will fight them here,'' invoking the specter of Osama bin Laden and al 
Qaeda. However, U.S. intelligence agencies, including military 
intelligence agencies, have refuted that claim that the conflict in 
Iraq is driven by al Qaeda. It is not. The violence is driven by a 
civil war primarily between the Iraqi Sunnis and Shias in a 1,400-year-
old conflict, and our troops are caught in the middle of that civil 
war. The recent National Intelligence Estimate definitively put that 
issue to rest. The Iraqi Sunnis and Shias have no interest in or 
capability of attacking the United States.

Osama bin Laden, al Qaeda, and their Taliban allies are still alive 
and active on the border of Afghanistan and Pakistan, thanks to the 
Bush administration and the massive diversion of our troops and 
resources from Afghanistan to an unnecessary war in Iraq. We do need to 
reinforce our troops in Afghanistan in order to end, once and for all, 
the threat posed by al Qaeda and the Taliban leadership.

Our Nation and our troops were led into the war in Iraq by the 
distortion of intelligence, dissembling by the President, and senior 
members of the administration. It is time for the truth. The Bush 
administration has saddled our troops with a failed strategy in Iraq. 
It is that failed strategy that hurts our troops, not the words of 
those of us who have pointed out the obvious failures by this 
administration.

I don't believe there is a level of U.S. troops that could stabilize 
Iraq at this point and resolve these underlying ages-old sectarian 
conflicts.

The President remains optimistic. However, optimism is not a 
strategy. Staying the course and repeating the failures of the past is 
not a new strategy. Vice President Dick Cheney, despite the grim 
National Intelligence Estimate acknowledging the civil war in Iraq, 
dismissed suggestions that Iraq is a disaster, saying, ''The reality on 
the ground is that we have made major progress.'' Vice President 
Cheney.

Optimism, stay the course, and delusion and denial, those do not 
serve our troops well. We need a real change in strategy.

A better strategy is to announce a time line negotiated with the 
Iraqi Government to bring our troops home over the next 6 months to a 
year.

The administration has always set time lines for political 
developments in Iraq, for the elections, for the drafting of the 
constitution. The administration argued such time lines were necessary 
to focus the energy of Iraq's leaders and to force compromises. We need 
to do the same on the military side. Negotiating a time line for 
bringing home U.S. troops with responsible parties in the Iraqi 
Government would boost the Iraqi Government's legitimacy and claim to 
self-rule, and force the Iraqi Government to take responsibility for 
itself and its citizens. Negotiating a withdrawal timeline and strategy 
with the Iraqi Government could more than possibly anything else 
improve the standing of the Iraqi Government in the eyes of its own 
people, a significant achievement in a region where the standing of 
rulers and governments is low, and it could also abate the insurgencies 
of both Sunnis and Shias. Too many Iraqis view us as an occupying 
force. Large majorities of both Sunnis and Shia want U.S. troops to 
withdraw, and approve of attacks on our men and women in uniform.



The U.S. must engage, despite the reluctance of this administration, 
in robust diplomacy with all factions in Iraq, except the foreign 
terrorists and domestic al Qaeda elements and work with Iraq's 
neighbors in an effort to bring about political reconciliation among 
Sunnis, Shias and Kurds. Our troops have done all that has been asked 
of them in Iraq.

Saddam Hussein is dead. His allies are on the run or in prison. The 
threat from WMDs is nonexistent. The war that has been authorized by 
Congress is won. The troops should come home. Congress should not 
authorize U.S. troops to referee a civil war in Iraq.