---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `f835617545cfee71a5e1e36b757cc6d4`
`Mr. ROSS — 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania for his work in 
helping write the Iraq War Accountability Act, which calls for 
transparency on how Iraq war funds are spent. It creates a Truman-like 
commission to investigate the awarding of contracts, the need to fund 
the Iraq war through the normal appropriations process and not the so-
called emergency supplementals that hide the funding, and using 
American resources to improve Iraqi assumption of internal policing 
operations. Another example of how the Blue Dogs are leading the way, 
Mr. Speaker, in trying to restore accountability to our government here 
at home as well as in Iraq.

And in closing, Mr. Speaker, as I began this Special Order this 
evening, I talked about the terrible tornados that devastated Dumas and 
Desha Counties in my district, and I enter into the Record two letters 
addressed to the President, one February 28 and one March 5, 2007.

















Congress of the United States,

















Washington, DC, February 28, 2007.


 Hon. George W. Bush,


 The White House,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to support Governor Mike 


 Beebe's request for a Presidential declaration of major 


 disaster for Desha County in Arkansas. Currently, the State 


 of Arkansas and local communities are beginning the process 


 of recovering from the heavy rains, high winds, and tornadoes 


 that touched down in Arkansas on Saturday, February 23rd. 


 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 501(a) of the Robert T. 


 Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, we ask 


 that the State of Arkansas receive a federal disaster 


 designation for the damage assessed in Desha County.



 As you are probably aware, we represent a predominantly 


 rural state where municipal governments are often ill-


 equipped to respond to disasters of this magnitude. We have 


 no doubt that all available resources at the state and local 


 level are being used, but federal assistance will be needed 


 to help the affected communities recover.



 We would also like to specifically request that Desha 


 County be approved for the FEMA Individuals & Households 


 Program (IHP) to include Temporary Housing and assistance 


 with Mobile Homes and Travel Trailers, Small Business 


 Administration disaster loans, and Direct Federal Assistance. 


 The availability of rental property is restricted with the 


 closest jurisdiction being approximately 45 miles.



 As you know, many of the manufactured homes and travel 


 trailers purchased by FEMA for use in the Hurricane Katrina 


 disaster are currently sitting unused in Hope, Arkansas. It 


 is our belief that these manufactured homes and travel 


 trailers should be made available to those Arkansans left 


 homeless by Saturday's storms. The inability of FEMA to find 


 a permanent home for these manufactured homes and travel 


 trailers in areas affected by Katrina has been a source of 


 frustration for the Arkansas delegation and our constituents. 


 However, their close proximity to the disaster in our state 


 provides a perfect opportunity to put some of them to a good 


 use.





 Mr. President, we respectfully request your swift 


 consideration and approval of this request. If you have any 


 questions or need additional information, please do not 


 hesitate to contact us.





 Sincerely,


 Blanche L. Lincoln.


 Mark Pryor.


 Mike Ross.