# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `f83cee82df114ad73b98d59442c9314a`
`Mr. BYRD — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, with 3 days to go before the start of the 
new fiscal year, there is much inside-the-beltway chatter about 
continuing resolutions, omnibuses, minibuses, budget showdowns, and 
Government shutdowns.

Nowhere is that chatter louder than that which is coming from the 
other end of Pennsylvania Avenue. The President has threatened almost 
daily that he will veto any appropriations bill that exceeds his budget 
request. These veto threats include all of the spending bills that 
provide funding for our domestic programs--programs that, in one way or 
another, benefit each American and every American. These bills help to 
educate our children, help to secure our homeland, help to support 
rural America, and help to promote a competitive economy. These 
domestic spending bills provide the essential building blocks for the 
foundation of our great country.

On the one hand, the President is seeking over $190 billion in 
emergency appropriations to fight the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
That is $190 billion for the cost of the wars for 1 year--1 year--1 
year. At the same time, the President wants to veto critical domestic 
spending bills because they total $22 billion above his, the 
President's, budget request--less than 1 percent of our entire budget, 
and about what we spend in 2 months' time fighting an unpopular war in 
Iraq. All the chatter from the White House even asserts that the $22 
billion for programs here in America means increasing taxes and putting 
America's economic growth at risk.

This, of course, begs the question of the economic impact of the 
almost $450 billion we have spent on the war in Iraq, a war which I 
oppose.

The President characterizes the $22 billion above his request as 
''increased'' spending. In fact, $19 billion of the $22 billion 
''increase'' simply represents restorations of the President's--the 
President's--the President's relentless attempts to savage important 
domestic initiatives.

This week, the FBI announced that violent crime is on the rise for 
the second straight year. Yet the President proposes to cut State and 
local law enforcement funding by $1.5 billion.

Hurricane Katrina proved that the Government is not prepared to 
handle major disasters, be they natural disasters or terrorist attacks. 
Yet the President--our President--has proposed to cut first responder 
grants by $1.2 billion. Those grants equip and train our police, our 
fire and emergency medical personnel to respond to a disaster.



The President--our President--proposes over $3 billion in cuts for 
education programs, including special education, safe and drug-free 
schools, and improving teacher quality.

Despite an aging population in this country, the President proposes a 
cut of $279 million for studying cancer, diabetes, and heart disease at 
the National Institutes of Health. Under the President's budget, the 
National Institutes of Health would have to eliminate 700 research 
grants that could lead to cures for treatments for cancer, diabetes, 
Alzheimer's, and other diseases.

The President also proposes to cut $2.7 billion for elderly and 
disabled housing and community development grants.

When the Interstate 35 bridge collapsed into the Mississippi River, 
it focused the Nation on the need to invest in our crumbling 
infrastructure. Yet the President proposes to cut over $3 billion from 
infrastructure programs, such as highway and transit funding, bridge 
repairs, rural wastewater grants, levees and dams, clean water grants, 
and airport safety and improvements. The President--our President--even 
proposes to reduce funding for the highway and transit levels that are 
guaranteed in the highway law that he, the President--our President--
signed in 2005.

The President proposed cuts of $1 billion from health programs such 
as rural health, preventive health, and mental health grants, as well 
as over $300 million from the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance 
Program.

Between 1998 and 2004, disease outbreaks in food produce have almost 
doubled. In 2003, there were 870 food inspectors at the FDA. In 2006, 
there were 640. The FDA lost 230 inspectors in less than 4 years. So it 
is no surprise food inspection dropped by nearly half during that time. 
Yet the President--our President--does not propose to restore those 
reductions in the number of inspectors.

All of these foolish cuts have been restored in the bipartisan bills 
that were approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee by nearly 
unanimous votes and, regrettably, that the President--our President--
has said he will veto. In the 12 bills that have been reported from the 
committee, we have significantly reduced funding used for 
congressionally directed spending, and we have added unprecedented 
transparency and accountability.


As one can clearly see, this White House standoff is not over some 
irresponsible plan for an expansion of Government or pork-barrel 
projects. Rather, it is the President's--our President's--effort to 
prevent cancellation of his ill-conceived and poorly justified proposed 
budget cuts. Congress wants to support vital core missions of 
Government, such as the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Food 
and Drug Administration, and the Customs and Border Protection Agency. 
Congress wants to make reasonable choices and set important priorities 
for our Nation.

There are consequences--yes, consequences--for failing to invest in 
America's safety and in America's future. Hurricane Katrina proved 
that. The collapse of the I-35 bridge proved that. Increases in violent 
crime prove that. Increases in food-borne illnesses prove that. Every 
headline about unsafe products being imported into this country proves 
that.

Americans rightly expect their Government to work.

Regrettably, rather than recognizing the consequences of his budget, 
the President--our President--is spoiling for a political fight. He 
refuses to recognize the facts, even as those facts evolve in a 
changing world.

According to the administration's latest National Intelligence 
Estimate:




 We judge the U.S. homeland will face a persistent and 


 evolving terrorist threat over the next three years. The main 


 threat comes from Islamic terrorist groups and cells, 


 especially al-Qaida, driven by their undiminished intent to 


 attack the United States.


Yet the President threatens to veto the Homeland Security bill that 
passed the Senate 89 to 4 because it is $2.2 billion above his request, 
with increases for first responder grants, for border security, and for 
enforcing our immigration laws.

The President--our President--is determined to veto 8 of our 12 
appropriations bills over $22 billion. Some have argued that $22 
billion is not a lot of money. I don't share that view; $22 billion is 
a lot of money. That is why we are fighting for the additional funding 
above the President's inadequate request. This fight is about 
priorities.

This Congress passed a budget resolution that balances the budget by 
2012 and provides for the increase above the President's request for 
domestic programs.

Consistent with the budget resolution, the Appropriations Committee 
has reported all 12 bills. Four have passed the Senate, and with 
passage of the continuing resolution, we will continue to press for 
passage of the remaining bills. The President's veto threats 
inevitably--yes, the President's veto threats inevitably slow this 
process.

In the 12 bills that have been reported by the Appropriations 
Committee, we invest the $22 billion in America's future. By 
comparison:

In fiscal year 2008, the total cost of President Bush's tax cuts is 
$252 billion--11 times the amount of spending in question.

In fiscal year 2008, the cost of the tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 
percent of taxpayers is almost $70 billion--three times the amount of 
spending in question.

In fiscal year 2008, special interest tax expenditures will cost $1 
trillion--45 times the amount of spending in question. Corporate tax 
expenditures will cost $91 billion--over four times the amount of 
spending in question.

So $22 billion is, in fact, a lot of money; money that, if well 
spent, can help to make America be a safer, healthier, more prosperous 
country. We are committed to making those careful choices. We will root 
out waste. We will cut or eliminate ineffective programs. We will make 
careful choices.

When President Bush came to town almost 7 years ago, he vowed to 
reach across the aisle for the common good of our Nation. Now is his 
chance. This is the President's chance to make good on that pledge. He 
can continue his purely partisan fight over $22 billion in needed 
spending, or the President can work with the Congress to confront 
problems that face Americans here at home.

It is my fervent hope the President will put away his veto pen so we 
can get on with the business of adequately funding programs that 
contribute to a safe and prosperous United States of America.

God bless America always.