# TRIBUTE TO PETTY OFFICER TYRONE LOGAN
## `f83d59ee942953dbe54fe947e5ffd1a9`
`Mrs. DRAKE — 15 July 2008`

---


Mrs. DRAKE. Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize the outstanding 
achievements of Explosive Ordinance Disposal Technician 1st Class (EWS) 
Tyrone Logan, and commend him on his great devotion to the United 
States. Named a 2008 U.S. Fleet Forces Command Sea Sailor of the Year 
by the United States Navy, Petty Officer Logan's dedication and 
leadership proved him a strong candidate for this extremely competitive 
award.

Petty Officer Logan is one of six recipients of this prestigious 
award. Along with the U.S. Navy, the Fleet Reserve Association worked 
to establish this program in 1972. The esteemed program recognizes the 
Navy's top Sailors through presentations, awards, and meritorious 
advancement to the next pay grade.

Serving in both the United States Marine Corps and the United States 
Navy, Petty Officer Logan has taken a very active role in the defense 
of our Nation. He has been deployed to such places as Mosul and Baghdad 
in Iraq, as well as Pakistan and Africa. He has also been awarded 
various honors including two Navy Achievement Medals and a Purple 
Heart. Further, Petty Officer Logan's mentorship to colleagues has been 
noted. These accolades serve as a testament to Petty Officer Logan's 
strength of character and commitment to our national values.

With this award, Petty Officer Logan has joined an elite group of 
Sailors who have achieved this goal. I am certain that his incredible 
accomplishments, dedication to our country and evident leadership 
talents will continue to speak highly of him, as they do now.
