---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f842b668fd4fe5c402299d28856d6e66`
`Mrs. TAUSCHER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 5 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to lend my strong support to this 
bipartisan resolution supporting our men and women in uniform and 
opposing the President's decision to send more troops into Iraq.

Last year, Congress united across party lines to say loudly and 
clearly, the year of 2006 must be a year of significant transition in 
Iraq. Rather than chart a new course, the President is proposing more 
of the same. His actions will only deepen America's involvement in 
Iraq's civil war.

Instead of acknowledging the facts on the ground, instead of 
listening to the combatant commanders and the Iraq Study Group and 
instead of hearing the American people's call for change, the President 
has once again chosen to stick to his failed policies, and now he has 
raised the risk by insisting more U.S. troops head to Iraq.

It has been 4 years, Mr. President. The American people have every 
right to expect a change of course in Iraq, and it is your 
responsibility to them and our men and women in uniform to stop 
fighting Iraq's civil war.

As General Odom, the former head of the National Security Agency 
under President Reagan, wrote this weekend, unless Congress speaks up, 
and I quote, we may be doomed to 2 more years of chasing a mirage in 
Iraq and possibly widening the war to Iran. We cannot let that happen. 
Sending more U.S. troops to Iraq will not stabilize it or the region as 
a whole. As the latest National Intelligence Estimate makes clear, Iraq 
is becoming more polarized and violent, not less. Sending more American 
troops to Iraq without stronger Iraqi leadership will only lead to 
further chaos.

My consistent opposition to this troop surge is built upon years of 
hearings in the House Armed Services Committee, congressional briefings 
and five trips to the region, including three to Iraq, witnessing the 
war firsthand and speaking with our troops and commanders on the 
ground.

I have watched the President plead his case to the American people, 
trying to justify why more troops will save his failed policy; but I am 
consistently disappointed by the stubbornness exhibited by an 
administration that has failed every step of the way.

I have stated from the beginning of the war that the Commander in 
Chief has the responsibility to define a well-articulated mission that 
has the support of the American people and an exit strategy to bring 
our troops home sooner and safer. He has neither.

Top military commanders in Iraq, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group and 
the American people all agree that sending more troops to Iraq will not 
end the civil war. They understand the Iraqi Government needs to take 
responsibility for securing their own country, and we should 
immediately begin a strategic redeployment of U.S. troops in 
conjunction with diplomacy that forces Iraq's neighbors to step up as 
regional, responsible partners.

If the President sidesteps the Congress, he does so at his own peril; 
and, sadly, it is the men and women of our Armed Forces and their 
families who will pay the highest price.



I believe it is grossly irresponsible to send more troops to Iraq 
when only two thirds of our Army's up-armored Humvees in Iraq and 
Afghanistan have been fitted with the latest anti-IED protective kits. 
That is over 4,000 Humvees without the right equipment.

General Pace has indicated that all armored vehicles will not be up-
armored until July, well after the President's surge has occurred.

This is why I am an original cosponsor of the Meehan legislation that 
requires the President to ask Congress for an up-or-down vote if he 
plans to raise troop levels in Iraq and why I am proud to support this 
legislation today.

I will continue to challenge the President to abandon his flawed 
troop surge policy, and I urge my colleagues to support this important 
resolution. We owe it to our troops and to our conscience.