---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `f84788b3269dc7dc4067f70b18bded14`
`Mr. BOREN — 25 February 2010`

---


Mr. BOREN. Madam Chair, I rise today in support of H.R. 2701, the 
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. This bill makes an 
excellent product and much needed investment in many critical areas, 
including those that have been previously underresourced.

One of the most important investments is this bill's commitment to 
developing foreign language capabilities, specifically in African 
languages that have historically been underrepresented within the 
intelligence community. The bill creates a pilot program under the 
National Security Education Program, or the NSEP. It expands the David 
Boren Scholars by requiring the Director of National Intelligence to 
identify high-priority African languages for which language education 
programs do not currently exist. The NSEP would then develop intensive 
training programs for implementation in both the United States and in 
countries where these languages are spoken.

Let's not forget that 10 years ago we didn't anticipate the conflicts 
along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border and the need for speakers of the 
local languages and dialects. When the need arose, we didn't have the 
capabilities to meet immediate demands, and to this day, we are still 
playing catch-up.



Similarly, we cannot predict from where the next crisis will emerge, 
but by recognizing the current instability in the Horn of Africa, 
Sudan, and Congo, we can anticipate crises that will impact national 
security.