# LANCE CORPORAL MATTHEW P. PATHENOS POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `f853ddffd304029c06bd417f9d6e4c2d`
`Mr. AKIN — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6208, a bill 
that I introduced to honor the life of Matthew P. Pathenos by 
designating the post office in Chesterfield, Missouri, as the Lance 
Corporal Matthew P. Pathenos Post Office Building.

A resident of Ballwin, Missouri, Lance Corporal Matthew P. Pathenos 
was part of the 3rd Battalion, 24th Marine Regiment, 4th Marine 
Division of the Marine Forces Reserve. On February 7, 2007, Lance 
Corporal Pathenos was killed during combat operations in the Anbar 
province of Iraq.

Matthew was often described by friends and family as a friendly young


man who always had a joke to tell, had a smile on his face. Matthew 
decided to join the military in order to follow his older brother into 
the country's service with the hope of helping those who could not help 
themselves. Matthew's then girlfriend, Erin, calls Lance Corporal 
Pathenos her hero and wishes that she might one day ''possess a 
fraction of his bravery and discipline.''

As a father of two marines, one of whom has served in Iraq, it's a 
privilege to stand here today to honor one of our fallen soldiers. 
Matthew's commitment and dedication to his country is a shining example 
of how our military men and women are the finest the Nation has to 
offer. He and his family's sacrifice should serve as a reminder to all 
that the freedom we enjoy as Americans is not free but it is the result 
of the tremendous bravery and self sacrifice of men and women willing 
to put themselves in harm's way for the cause of freedom.

Throughout the many, many years of our Nation's existence, America 
has been unique at one particular regard and in many particular 
regards. America is the only Nation that has a political and religious 
motto, a code that we go by. It's expressed and it was expressed as the 
reason why we fought our war to gain our independence in that great 
sentence. It says that we believe that there are certain inalienable 
rights that come from God. Among these are life, liberty, and the 
pursuit of happiness. The sentence goes on to say that governments are 
instituted among men to protect those basic God-given rights. That has 
been the reason why we have gone to war, to protect our God-given 
rights down through the ages, in the War of Independence and other wars 
as well, and this war is no different.

Matthew Pathenos understood in his heart and in his gut the basic 
idea that he was defending his family and his homeland.



And so he joins the ranks of those who are still on patrol, whose 
names we will regard. He joins the ranks of the people who made the 
ultimate sacrifice; that you and I and future generations of Americans 
may go free. And in that regard, we honor him by naming this post 
office after Matthew Pathenos. Please join me by voting ''yes'' on H.R. 
6208.