# None
## `f866eaf308e37406974c49fa810702f6`
`Mr. McCAIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, yesterday a man whom I had the 
opportunity of meeting and knowing a little bit, British Army 
Lieutenant General Jim Lamb--General Lamb is the Deputy Commander of 
Multinational Forces Iraq and senior British military representative in 
Iraq--was asked by Jamie McIntyre of CNN about how ''the growing 
sentiment in our Congress to bring U.S. troops home sooner'' affected 
the mood of his troops deployed in Iraq, meaning the British troops. 
Lieutenant General Lamb responded that those troops find it ''a touch 
difficult.'' I think that is a very interesting phrase, ''a touch 
difficult,'' because while it is so clear to them that we are making 
progress, it is not reflected by those who are not in the fight but are 
sitting back and making judgment upon what they, the troops, can see 
with absolute clarity.

Lieutenant General Lamb noted that those making such judgments and 
not taking note of the progress ''are not going out every day in a 
humvee.'' Moreover, he further noted that the progress the troops see 
is seldom reported. They see provincial counselors,


they see water going to people who didn't have it before, they see 
electricity coming online, they see stability to the networks. They see 
all this stuff that no one portrays.

I say to my friend from Michigan and the Senator from Illinois and 
others, I hope they pay a little attention to General Lamb's statement 
or reject it out of hand, of course, as apparently is being done.

I have to repeat, General Lamb responded that his troops find it ''a 
touch difficult.'' While it is so clear to them we are making progress, 
it is not reflected by those who are not in the fight but are sitting 
back and making judgment upon what they, the troops, can see with 
absolute clarity.

I don't think I have to editorialize anymore on General Lamb's, I 
think, totally accurate statements.

The New York Post reported on July 10 an interview with General 
Petraeus. He is asked by Ralph Peters, a person for whom I have 
enormous respect:




 The current military operations in Iraq appear 


 comprehensive and tenacious, part of a long-term, integrated 


 plan. What can we realistically expect to achieve?



 Petraeus: Our primary goal is to work with our Iraqi 


 counterparts to improve security for the Iraqi people. This 


 is intended to give the Iraqi leaders the time to resolve the 


 tough political issues they face and to pursue internal 


 reconciliation.


He goes on to say:




 As to reasonable expectations, we can expect a reduction in 


 sectarian deaths and the gradual spread of Iraqi government 


 authority. The level of sectarian deaths in Baghdad in June 


 was the lowest in about a year. Nevertheless, the extremists 


 still have been able to carry out car bomb and other attacks.



 Wherever we operate, we try to reconnect Iraqi ministries 


 and local governments to meet the needs of the people. 


 Finally, we provide opportunities for Iraqis to use their 


 local knowledge to help root out al Qaeda. Successful 


 operations of this nature have played out in recent months in 


 Ramadi, Hit and Baquba. In each case, Iraqis turned against 


 al Qaeda and sided with the Coalition.


Question:




 Now that the surge is fully in place, what's your sense of 


 the positives and negatives thus far? If you could have more 


 of any one item, what would it be? Troops? Time? Iraqi unity?


General Petraeus's answer:




 I can think of few commanders in history who wouldn't have 


 wanted more troops, more time or more unity among their 


 partners; however, if I could only have one at this point in 


 Iraq, it would be more time.


I repeat, General Petraeus said:




 . . . if I could only have one at this point in Iraq, it 


 would be more time. This is an exceedingly tough endeavor 


 that faces countless challenges.


So what does the Levin-Reed amendment do? Deny General Petraeus 
exactly that. As Senator Levin points out in his statement, the 
announced withdrawal would force the Iraqi Government to act and, 
therefore, then we would see progress. What if, I say to my colleagues 
who support this amendment, what if instead the situation deteriorates 
into a chaotic situation, then what do we do? Then what do we do if the 
situation gets worse? Do we come back in? Do we sit on the sidelines 
and watch another genocide? What if, I say to my colleague who often 
asks me what is plan B, the surge doesn't work? What is plan B if the 
withdrawal doesn't work?

I don't think that most people would believe that an international 
mediator is exactly a solution that is viable.

I wish to talk a minute about the region. Finally, after our stunning 
military victory and shock and awe and the invasion side of the 
conflict was over, America was in pretty good shape in the region. The 
Syrians were trying to be cooperative. There were efforts on the part 
of the Iranians to join with us in efforts to bring about an end to 
terrorism in the region. Then we began to fail, and that failure has, 
obviously, been chronicled in many books. I recommend to my colleagues 
the book ''Fiasco'' or ''Cobra II'' or a number of other books that 
have been written that describe the failed Rumsfeld strategy. We paid a 
very heavy price for it. All of us know that. It has been the sacrifice 
of our most precious asset.

What has happened since? We find the Syrians continuing to intervene 
in northern Lebanon. We find the Syrians, according to many experts, 
transporting suicide bombers through the airport in Damascus into Iraq. 
We find the Iranians not only orchestrating attacks and providing 
intelligence and even money and funding, in some cases, but there is 
clear and compelling evidence that the IEDs, the most lethal IEDs are 
exported from Iran into Iraq, those that have the lethality even of 
going through the armor of a tank. We find the Iranians more aggressive 
in the region with Iranian support for Hezbollah and Hamas. The Syrians 
continue to try to unsettle the Government of Lebanon, and the 
Government of Lebanon is having great difficulties.

There is a U.N. Security Council resolution that calls for the 
disarmament of Hezbollah in southern Lebanon. There has been no effort 
whatsoever to achieve the goals set forth in that U.N. Security Council 
resolution. In fact, there is strong evidence that Hezbollah in 
southern Lebanon is being resupplied with the rockets they expended in 
their latest attack on Israel which provoked an attack on Israel. We 
find the Saudis becoming more and more uneasy. We once had a report--
that fortunately turned out to be false--that the Turks had crossed 
over into the Kurdish areas because of Kurdish insurgents who are 
operating out of the Turkish areas, at least according to the Turks. So 
we have seen, because of our failure in Iraq, more strife, more 
conflict, and more threats to the State of Israel.


Meanwhile, the Iranians continue on the path to develop nuclear 
weapons. A great fear of many of us is not a nuclear weapon aimed at 
Israel from Iran. One of our great fears is a nuclear weapon passed to 
a terrorist organization by the Iranian Government, which has stated 
through its President and its policies their dedication to the 
extinction of the State of Israel. I could argue that the State of 
Israel is probably in more jeopardy from a national security standpoint 
than at any time in its history, since that very young nation achieved 
its independence.

So what happens in the region when we adopt the Levin-Reed 
resolution, and the signal is sent throughout the region ''don't worry, 
the Americans are leaving.'' I think the consequences are fairly 
obvious. So we are not just talking about Iraq, as serious and 
consequential as that situation is. We are talking about the region. It 
is hard for me to believe the Sunnis would not intervene to protect 
Sunnis if there is a bloodletting in Baghdad, where 2 million Sunni 
reside and 4 million Shia. But according to the premise of the Levin-
Reed amendment, this will force the Iraqi Government to act and to 
control their own destiny.

My question is: What do we do if they can't? What do we do if they 
can't?

Some of my colleagues have talked about this ''gradual withdrawal.'' 
A gradual withdrawal. I think most military experts would tell you that 
the most difficult operation in military tactics and strategy is a 
''gradual withdrawal.'' It is fraught with difficulty. When an army is 
defeated, and an army tries to come home, it is the most difficult of 
all military operations.

So I think that as we discuss this specific amendment and the issue 
of whether we stay or go in Iraq, whether we allow the new strategy of 
General Petraeus and the Joint Chiefs of Staff a chance to succeed, 
which calls for a surge in Iraq, while we debate this, I don't think we 
should ignore the larger implications for the region. I believe, and I 
cannot absolutely predict the future, but a failure in Iraq, according 
to most experts, would lead to a chaotic and unsettled situation in the 
region.

So I would at least ask for my colleagues' consideration of an 
article by Stephen Biddle in the Washington Post on July 11, entitled 
''Iraq: Go Deep or Get Out.'' I think perhaps we ought to start looking 
at this situation from that respect. Mr. Biddle, in his piece, says:




 The result has been a search for some kind of politically 


 moderate ''Plan B'' that would split the difference between 


 surge and withdrawal.


I think that adequately describes the Reed-Levin amendment.




 The problem is that these politics do not fit the military 


 reality of Iraq. Many would like to reduce the U.S. 


 commitment to something like half of today's troop presence 


 there. But it is much harder to find a mission for the 


 remaining 60,000 to 80,000 soldiers that makes any sense 


 militarily.



 Perhaps the most popular centrist option today is drawn 


 from the Baker-Hamilton commission recommendations of last 


 December. This would withdraw U.S. combat brigades, shift the 


 American mission from one of training and supporting the 


 Iraqi security forces, and cut total U.S. troop levels in the




 country by about half. This idea is at the heart of the 


 proposed legislative effort that Domenici threw his support 


 behind last week, and support is growing on both sides of the 


 aisle on Capitol Hill.


The politics make sense, but the compromise leaves us with an 
untenable military mission. Without a major U.S. combat effort to keep 
the violence down, the American training effort would face challenges 
even bigger than those our troops are confronting today. An ineffective 
training effort would leave tens of thousands of American trainers, 
advisers, and supporting troops exposed to that violence in the 
meantime. The net result is likely to be continued U.S. casualties with 
little positive effect on Iraq's ongoing civil war.




 It is unrealistic to expect that we can pull back to some 


 safe yet productive mission of training but not fighting--


 this would be neither safe nor productive.


So, Madam President, I think we ought to look at what we are 
discussing here not only from the standpoint of Iraq but the 
implications for our presence in the region. And I will say something 
that is very seldom stated on the floor of the Senate: as long as we 
are dependent on oil in the region, our greater national security 
interests are at stake in what happens with the outcome of Iraq. The 
possibility of success in Iraq, of seeing the world's third largest oil 
reserves being modernized and used, and those revenues used for the 
betterment of the American people, also presents a goal that I think is 
worth striving for.

I would like to again return to the fact that I am deeply 
disappointed in the Maliki government. Their failure to act unhinges 
the very important aspect of the military, political, social, and 
economic aspects of any successful counterinsurgency operation. But I 
also believe that nothing would embolden the Iranians more, nothing 
would embolden the Syrians more, nothing would frighten the Jordanians 
and the Saudis more, not to mention the Egyptians, than the passage of 
legislation which would require the withdrawal of the United States.

So I urge my colleagues not only to look at how this legislation and 
this debate affects America vis-a-vis Iraq but affects our western and 
national interests and values in the entire Middle East.

Madam President, I note the patience of my friend from Rhode Island, 
who is a thoughtful and valued member of the Armed Services Committee 
whose friendship I appreciate a great deal.

I yield the floor.