# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2206, U.S.  TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `f869b2b4ec408faf323a3e75de3a7d0b`
`Mr. OBEY â€” 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. As I was saying, Mr. Speaker, we don't relish bringing a 
package to the floor that we don't like and that we are not going to 
vote for. But what I especially don't relish is the fact that, in the 
process of doing so, we are criticized by people on the minority side 
of the aisle who, when they were in charge, couldn't run a two-car 
funeral in terms of the budget.

The gentleman claims that it has taken us too long to get here. The 
fact is, the gentleman's party was in control last year, and it took 
them 110 days to produce a supplemental that the administration 
requested. That is 10 days longer than it took us. And we had to spend 
the first 30 days of this session passing last year's budget because 
the gentleman's party couldn't get a single domestic appropriations 
bill through the House because of an internal Republican Party squabble 
between Republicans in the Senate and Republicans in the House. So that 
ate up the first 30 days. And the rest of the time we have spent trying 
to convince the President to change his mind on the policy in Iraq.

And so we haven't exactly been doing nothing these last 110 days. We 
sent a proposition to the President to try to force change in American 
policy in Iraq. He vetoed it. So if somebody is going to bellyache 
about the fact that the money isn't getting to the troops, we passed 
that. It was the President who vetoed it. It is the President's action 
that has delayed getting anything to anywhere.

We then sent a second package over, and the Senate couldn't pass 
that. And so that is when we faced the inevitability that we simply did 
not have the votes to force the President to change policy, and so we 
are now trying to produce a responsible alternative.

Let me also say, with respect to the argument that we are somehow 
playing into the hands of al Qaeda. Who played into the hands of al 
Qaeda? A fellow by the name of Bush. He lives in that big White House 
at the other end of the avenue. He is the guy who walked this country 
into a war he didn't have a clue about how to end, he didn't have a 
clue about the political realities in the region, he didn't have a clue 
about what was necessary militarily to pacify the country. He didn't 
have a clue about what this was going to do to our influence in the 
world. If anybody in this country has weakened our influence 
drastically and tragically in the Middle East third of the world, it is 
the occupant, the present occupant, of the White House and his 
Republican allies who continue to support this misguided policy on this 
misbegotten war.

So, I get a little tired of people who produced one mess after 
another. I get a little tired of people who have been wrong from the 
start on this war. They went after the wrong country. They didn't go 
after al Qaeda, they went after Iraq. Iraq didn't have anything to do 
with 9/11. The gentleman knows that, unless he has a faulty memory. 
Only Dick Cheney is still trying to invent that connection, and his aim 
is about as bad as it is when he's got a shotgun in his hand.

So with all due respect, Mr. Speaker, we have tried to produce 
change. We have been blocked in obtaining that change by the President. 
We are now trying to move ahead, on the only option we have available. 
And the gentleman's nose is out of joint because the action was 
completed last night too late to provide good notice. You know what? I 
didn't know about a third of this stuff in this package until I got it 
in the morning, because we made a number of changes in response to 
White House requests as late as 10:00 last night. I don't apologize for 
that. That is what negotiating is supposed to be.

You can't have it both ways. You can't squawk at us for being too 
late in bringing the bill to the floor, and then squawk at us for not 
giving you enough notice.

So, with all due respect, I will take a look at the record of the 
minority party last year when they were running the show and couldn't 
pass anything, and I will compare theirs to our record any day of the 
week.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
