---
---

# CHARLIE WILSON
## `f8728f96fb98083e9219202b3935f770`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Earlier this evening, Madam Speaker, 
colleagues came to the floor of the House to salute our late colleague, 
the Honorable Congressman Charles Wilson, who made the people of the 
world happy because of his enthusiasm and leadership.

Congressman Wilson was born June 1, 1933, in the small town of 
Trinity, Texas. He attended public schools there and graduated from 
Trinity High School in 1951.

While attending Sam Houston State University in Huntsville, Texas, 
Wilson was appointed to the United States Naval Academy. He received 
his B.S. degree, graduating eighth from the bottom of his class in 
1956.



However, that was not a testimony to how Charlie Wilson would serve 
this Nation.

He served in the Navy, attaining the rank of lieutenant. He graduated 
as a gunnery officer. He was assigned to a destroyer to search for 
Soviet submarines. He then took a top secret post at the Pentagon as 
part of an intelligence unit that evaluated the Soviet Union's nuclear 
forces.

Wilson came into politics by volunteering for John F. Kennedy's 
Presidential campaign in 1960. After a 30-day leave from the Navy, he 
entered his name into the race for Texas Representative from his home 
district. While back on duty, his mother, sister and their friends went 
door-to-door, campaigning. It worked. At age 27, he was sworn into 
office. For the next dozen years, Wilson was known as ''the liberal 
from Lufkin.''

In 1972, he came to the United States Congress. He was a power. He 
was a man who enjoyed the friendship of many of our colleagues. He was 
a staunch supporter of the elderly, of women, and of equal rights. He 
was unique in his time.

He came to this Congress in a segregated time, coming from Houston, 
Texas, and the surrounding areas; but he knew my colleagues Congressman 
Mickey Leland and Congresswoman Barbara Jordan.

I know that he had a relationship that showed no discrimination, no 
bias. I know he loved this country. He wanted to do well by our allies; 
and, yes, he was the star of ''Charlie's War.'' He was the one who led 
quietly an opposition to the Russians' takeover of Afghanistan. That 
story will always be his--brave, quiet, but successful. As the story is 
told, he didn't do a lot of talking about it, but he got the job done.

We will miss Congressman Charlie Wilson. I am so honored and 
privileged to have had the opportunity to serve with him for 2 years 
when I first came to the United States Congress. He was a joy to serve 
with. He was a defined Member of this body, who respected this body but 
who had a great time. We will miss him as he has lost his life just 
recently.

We say to his lovely wife who shared times with him for 11 years, 
Thank you for sharing Charlie Wilson. Thank you for giving him the joy 
of his life, and thank you so very much for recognizing what a special 
treasure he was to the American people and to the great State of Texas.

Madam Speaker, my words, I hope, will be a mere comfort to his family 
and friends.

To my colleagues in the Texas delegation, yes, we have a fallen hero; 
but we have a friend we will be able to remember for a lifetime.

God bless you, Charlie Wilson. May you rest in peace.