# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `f879fe2e7e7088e290b6390dd029093f`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 May 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman.

I rise in opposition to one more dollar being spent on the war in 
Iraq but many, many dollars spent on the brave men and women. I thank 
the leadership and I thank this committee for allowing us to spend 
dollars because of a responsibility to our troops with the GI Bill.

I also offer to my constituents, but also to this body, that we have 
an emergency, as well, with our summer jobs program. And I hope that we 
will find a way to fund a summer jobs program for our youth.

Let me say that there is not a tax burden in this bill, and I thank 
our leadership for understanding PAYGO. This is nothing more than an 
opportunity for those who make over $1 million to experience the 
burden, if you will, of the sacrifice this Nation is making on behalf 
of our troops. The moneys that are expended, only $500 for those making 
over $1 million and more, will be given to our troops with the GI Bill 
of Rights.

Where do we stand? I stand with the flag on behalf of the American 
troops. This is a great bill. Vote against the funding for the war and 
vote for the redeployment of our troops, a better domestic plan, and 
yes, an opportunity to pass the GI Bill of Rights, the GI Bill for our 
young men and women.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the continued funding of 
the Iraq war. While I offer my support for Amendments No. 2 and No. 3, 
I must oppose amendment No. 1. While amendments 2 and 3 contain 
provisions beneficial to the American people, designed to improve our 
economy and protect our young men and women, amendment 1 continues a 
disastrous policy of providing unrestricted funding to continue the 
Bush administration's war in Iraq.

Last night, I offered three amendments to this legislation in the 
rules committee. My first amendment would have added three sense of 
Congress paragraphs: ''(1) The war in Iraq should end as safely and 
quickly as possible and our troops should be brought home; (2) the 
performance of United States military personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan 
should be commended, their courage and sacrifice have been exceptional, 
and when they come home, their service should be recognized 
appropriately, including through the observance of a national day of 
celebration; and (3) the primary purpose of funds made available by 
this Act should be to transition the mission of United States Armed 
Forces in Iraq and undertake their redeployment, and not to extend or 
prolong the war.''

This amendment is borne from my deeply held belief that we must 
commend our military for their exemplary performance and success in 
Iraq. As lawmakers continue to debate U.S. policy in Iraq, our heroic 
young men and women continue to willingly sacrifice life and limb on 
the battlefield. Our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. 
We sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the 
midst of an insurgent civil war and continuing political upheaval. The 
United States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi 
government and military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to 
an end, and, when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing 
their nation will fall to Iraqis themselves. However, whether or not my 
colleagues agree that the time has come to withdraw our American forces 
from Iraq, I believe that all of us in Congress should be of one accord 
that our troops deserve our sincere thanks and congratulations.

I very strongly believe that our Nation has a moral obligation to 
ensure that our veterans are treated with the respect and dignity that 
they deserve. One reason we are the greatest Nation in the world is 
because of the brave young men and women fighting for us in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and they deserve 
to know that a grateful Nation cares about them.

The second amendment that I offered explicitly states that the goals 
laid out by the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq 
Resolution of 2002, AUMF, have all been achieved by our troops in Iraq.

As my amendment describes, the brave men and women of our military 
have done everything we asked them to do. The United States Armed 
Forces successfully toppled the regime of Saddam Hussein and captured 
the key cities of Iraq in only 21 days. Because of the skill and 
dedication of the members of the Armed Forces, the entire world has now 
been assured that Iraq does not possess weapons


of mass destruction that could threaten the United States or any member 
nation of the international community. The Armed Forces performed 
magnificently in conducting military operations designed to ensure that 
the people of Iraq would enjoy the benefits of a democratically-elected 
government governing a country that is capable of sustaining itself 
economically and politically and defending itself militarily. In June 
2004, the Armed Forces facilitated the transfer of sovereignty from the 
Coalition Provisional Authority to the interim Government of Iraq, 
which governed Iraq until December 2005 when national elections were 
held in which more than 8 million Iraqi men and women voted in 
elections that were free and fair.

While our troops have achieved the objectives for which they were 
sent to Iraq, they are now caught in the midst of a sectarian conflict. 
Unfortunately, there is no military solution to Iraq's ongoing 
political and sectarian conflicts. This is a war without end. Though 
President Bush continues to rely on a strategy that seeks to stabilize 
and reconcile Iraq by force, only the Iraqi government can secure a 
lasting peace. Thus far, the Iraqi government has demonstrated an 
inability or an unwillingness to deliver on the political benchmarks 
that they themselves agreed were essential to achieving national 
reconciliation, which was the rationale and stated objective of the 
recent troop surge. Continuing to put the lives of our soldiers and our 
national treasury in the hands of what by most informed accounts--even 
by members of the Bush Administration--is an ineffective central Iraqi 
government is irresponsible and contrary to the wishes of the 
overwhelming majority of the American people.

The third amendment that I offered would provide funds for summer 
youth employment and training activities under the Workforce Investment 
Act. Unfortunately, many of our youth have to help out their families 
in these troubling economic times. Many of the youth who could obtain 
skills and training in their summer jobs state that they would either 
be sitting around watching television or getting into trouble if they 
were not in their communities working.

For more than 30 years, beginning in the 1960s, the Federal 
Government saw the enormous benefit of providing summer jobs to 
millions of disadvantaged youth across America. But since 2000, the 
Summer Youth Employment and Training Program, SYETP, has lost its 
direct funding, and is now effectively buried among 10 competing 
programs within the Workforce Investment Act, WIA. With unemployment 
soaring and the summer heat approaching, there is an urgent need to 
bring back summer jobs for youth. We need to be cognizant of the fact 
that many families count on their children working during the summer to 
raise money for college.

Families are facing a foreclosure crisis, the rising cost of gas, and 
health care; this amendment provides more money for workforce 
preparedness among our youth. When we invest in our youth and foster a 
sense of responsibility it will last a lifetime, aiding not only them, 
but their families, and our communities. This amendment would give our 
youth the skills and training they need to enter the workforce, and the 
money they and their families need to make it in these tough economic 
times.

However, the legislation we are considering today contains many 
important provisions, but, unfortunately, the first amendment continues 
funding for a war that I strongly oppose. I oppose amendment No. 1 
because I stand with the American taxpayers who have paid over $600 
billion to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I stand with the 4076 
fallen heroes who stand even taller in death because they gave the last 
full measure of devotion to their country. Last May, I was proud to 
vote for H.R. 1591, a supplemental spending bill that would have 
provided funds for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, which included a 
timetable for the redeployment of U.S. troops. Though this bill passed 
the House by a clear majority, the President opted to veto this 
legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I must oppose Amendment No. 1. This amendment provides a 
total of $162.9 billion for the Department of Defense for FY 2008 and 
FY 2009, funds that are handed over without any strings. The amendment 
does not withhold funding for the Iraq war, a war that so many of my 
colleagues in Congress oppose, and which only 32 percent of Americans 
now support. The amendment does not require that war funds can only be 
used for the responsible redeployment of American troops home from 
Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I voted against the 2002 Iraq War Resolution. I am proud 
of that vote. I have consistently voted against the Administration's 
practice of submitting a request for war funding through an emergency 
supplemental rather than the regular appropriations process which would 
subject the funding request to more rigorous scrutiny and require it to 
be balanced against other pressing national priorities. I cannot 
support legislation that provides the President with the resources to 
prolong his ill-advised war effort unrestrained.

I rise today in strong support of Amendment No. 2. This amendment 
lays out a responsible U.S. policy toward Iraq, requiring that troops 
begin redeployment from Iraq within 30 days, with a goal of completing 
the withdrawal of combat troops by December 2009. As a Member of both 
the Out of Iraq and the Progressive Caucuses, I am proud to vote for 
legislation that, like other measures passed by this Congress, begins 
the process of withdrawing U.S. men and women from Iraq.


In addition, Mr. Speaker, this legislation specifically requires that 
any agreement between the United States and the Government of Iraq 
committing future U.S. forces must be specifically authorized by 
Congress. The governments of Iraq and the United States announced their 
intention to forge a strategic framework agreement, a long-term, 
bilateral pact, to be completed by July 31, 2008. This negotiated 
agreement is to be based on the Declaration of Principles for a Long-
Term Relationship of Cooperation and Friendship Between the Republic of 
Iraq and the United States of America, signed November 26, 2007, by 
Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President Bush.

Under the Declaration of Principles, the parties will negotiate a 
security agreement, under which the United States will support the 
Iraqi government and Security Forces in providing security and 
stability and fighting al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups. The 
Declaration of Principles envisions an agreement setting forth a wide-
ranging set of commitments, which will cover issues including politics, 
economics, and security. In hearings before the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs, administration officials have indicated that the President 
intends to negotiate this agreement as an executive agreement, not 
subject to Congressional approval. It is essential that any agreement 
which commits future U.S. troops to the defense of Iraq is outside the 
purview of existing authorizations, and such an agreement must be 
submitted to the Congress for approval. This legislation also prohibits 
the establishment of permanent bases in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, amendment No. 2 requires that the Iraqi government step 
up and pay its share of Iraqi reconstruction efforts. I am concerned 
that the United States has paid and continues to pay a disproportionate 
amount for Iraq reconstruction, especially when the Iraqi government 
reportedly has a $25-30 billion budget surplus this year. To date the 
United States has appropriated more than $45 billion for Iraq 
reconstruction.

American funded reconstruction programs have included: the training 
and equipping of Iraqi security forces.

Iraq is a resource-rich nation. Though still facing problems 
including a lack of technology, damage from previous mismanagement, the 
effects of looting, and water intrusion, Iraqi oil production is 
currently at around 2 million barrels per day. The price of oil has 
skyrocketed to over $100 a barrel and Iraqi oil exports are generating 
an estimated $56.4 billion this year alone, according to the GAO, yet 
it is U.S. taxpayers who continue to foot the bill for Iraqi 
reconstruction. The government of Iraq is stashing its money in global 
banks, including a reported $30 billion in the U.S., instead of 
investing this money in the development of crucial Iraqi 
infrastructure. This legislation requires the Iraqi government to take 
responsibility for the future of its own nation.

There are a number of other key provisions in this amendment. It 
requires the President to reach an agreement with Iraq to subsidize 
fuel costs for U.S. Armed Forces operating in Iraq so that our military 
pays what Iraqis pay. It requires that troop's meet the Pentagon's 
definition of combat ready before they are deployed to Iraq; Prohibits 
troops from being deployed longer than Pentagon guidelines recommend; 
and requires that troops spend adequate time at home between 
deployments. This legislation makes substantial strides toward cleaning 
up contracting in Iraq, expanding current law to make all contractors 
working in war zones subject to prosecution for offenses that would 
otherwise be in violation of U.S. law; extending the statute of 
limitations for fraud cases during wartime; and amending the federal 
criminal code to prohibit profiteering and fraud involving contractors 
overseas. In addition, it prohibits interrogation techniques not 
authorized in the Army Field Manual, a provision necessary in 
eliminating torture.
















Amendment No. 3


Mr. Speaker, the third amendment to H.R. 2642 provides over $21.2 
billion for much needed domestic programs and foreign aid. By extending 
unemployment benefits, expanded veterans' education benefits, and 
placing a moratorium on the Bush Administrations' seven Medicaid 
regulations; this amendment gets us closer to where the Economic 
Stimulus package should have taken us.

This amendment will provide increased funds for food aid, military 
hospitals, and the reconstruction of the Louisiana levees.














 International Food Aid


As many of you know, we are facing an international food crisis. 
According to the International Monetary Fund, IMF, global food


prices have increased an average of 43 percent. In fact since March 
2007, wheat has increased by 146 percent, soybean has increased by 71 
percent, corn by 41 percent, and rice prices have increased by 29 
percent, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Many factors have played into this crisis. In China, India, and other 
emerging markets experiencing rapid economic growth, consumers are 
increasing their demand for food, oil, and energy supplies. Rising 
energy costs have directly raised the cost of agricultural production. 
Adverse weather-related events have lowered crop yields, particularly 
affecting wheat harvests. Depreciation of the U.S. dollar accounts for 
part of the increase in U.S. food prices, while increased production of 
biofuel has raised the price of corn.

Sadly, approximately 1 billion people--or one sixth of the world's 
population--subsist on less than $1 per day. Of this population, 162 
million survive on less than $0.50 per day. Overall, increased food 
prices particularly affect developing countries, and the poorest people 
within those countries, where populations spend a larger proportional 
share of income on basic food commodities.

That is why I, along with other Hunger Caucus members, hosted a forum 
on the Food Crisis and what it is doing to our children. We met with 
leaders of the international aid community to come up with pragmatic 
solutions to the global hunger crisis, both in the short term and the 
long term.

In my district I submitted an appropriations request for the Houston 
Food Bank to expand their collection and distribution of food to the 
good people of Houston. We each have to do our part, not only in our 
district by supporting much needed programs and organizations, but 
across this great Nation and the rest of the world.

This amendment would give $9.9 billion, $496 million above the 
President's request, for the State Department, USAID and International 
Food Assistance. It is simply unacceptable in this day and age that 
children are going hungry. We have millions of dollars to bail out Bear 
Stearns, let's find that same money to help our families and our 
children.









Expanded GI Benefits for Veterans Education


As champion for veterans, I am especially pleased to see the 
expansion of education benefits to veterans under the GI bill.











 Extended Unemployment Compensation


The number of Americans looking for work has grown by 800,000 over 
the last year, and the number of American jobs has declined by 260,000 
since the beginning of 2008. This supplemental would extend 
unemployment benefits for workers who have exhausted their benefits by 
up to 13 weeks in every State as well as an additional 13 weeks in 
States with high unemployment.





 Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act of 2008 (H.R. 5613)


The Bush Administration sought to cut services and payments to 
American families by adding seven different Medicaid regulations to the 
stimulus. This amendment places a much needed moratorium on those 
regulations, giving back to our seniors, families, and those with 
disabilities as well as cut payments to safety net providers.















 Refugee Assistance


$675 million, $454 million above the President's request, to address 
the refugee crisis in Iraq and elsewhere.


















 Merida


This amendment would give $461.5 million, $88.5 million below the 
President's request, for the initiative to provide counternarcotics and 
law enforcement assistance in Mexico, $400 million, and Central 
America, $61.5 million.














 Military Construction


The $4.6 billion for military construction, $2.2 billion over the 
President's request, including $939 million for BRAC, over $210 million 
for the military child care centers that the President announced in the 
State of the Union but never funded, and $992 million for military 
hospitals, to prevent the types of problems that faced Walter Reed.















 Bureau of Prisons


This $178 million urgently needed to meet rising incarceration costs 
and growing inmate population. The administration would have paid for 
these costs with cuts to State and local law enforcement funding.








Cleaning up Contracting (H.R. 3928 & H.R. 5712)


Increases accountability and transparency in federal contracting by 
requiring companies that receive more than 80 percent of their revenue 
from the federal government to disclose the names and salaries of their 
top officers, and requires federal contractors to report violations of 
federal criminal law and over-payments on contracts over $5 million.