---
---

# FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `f8817346fdc41ebb2ba87d1556591516`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I am troubled by the FISA bill that has 
come to the Senate floor. Since I introduced the original FISA 
legislation over 30 years ago, I have worked to amend the FISA law many 
times, and I believe that this bill is not faithful to the traditional 
balance that FISA has struck. This bill gives the executive branch vast 
new authorities to spy on Americans, without adequate guidance or 
oversight. Americans deserve better.

I voted ''yes'' on the motion to proceed to consideration of this 
bill because I believe this legislation is too important to hold up any 
longer. The House has already passed a new FISA bill, and the Senate 
needs to do the same. But let me be clear, the Senate should reject the 
bill that we have before us. We need to pass the Judiciary Committee 
version instead.

The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act is one of our landmark 
statutes. For nearly three decades, it has regulated Government 
surveillance in a way that protects both our national security and our 
civil liberties and prevents the Government from abusing its powers. It 
is because FISA enhances both security and liberty that it has won such 
broad support over the years from Presidents, Members of Congress, and 
the public alike. It is important to remember that before this 
administration, no administration had ever resisted FISA, much less 
systematically violated it.

When the administration finally came to Congress to amend FISA after 
its warrantless wiretapping program was exposed, it did so not in the 
spirit of partnership, but to bully us into obeying its wishes. The 
Protect America Act was negotiated in secret at the last minute. The 
administration issued dire threats that failure to enact a bill before 
the August recess could lead to disaster. Few, if any, knew what the 
language would actually do. The result of this flawed process was 
flawed legislation, which virtually everyone now acknowledges must be 
substantially revised.

I commend the members of the Intelligence Committee for their 
diligent efforts to put together a new bill. They have taken their 
duties seriously, and they have made some notable improvements over the 
Protect America Act.

But their bill is deeply flawed, and I am strongly opposed to 
enacting it in its current form. This bill fails to protect Americans' 
constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms.

There are many problems with the bill.

It redefines ''electronic surveillance,'' a key term in FISA, in a 
way that is unnecessary and may have unintended consequences.

Court review occurs only after the fact, with no consequences if the 
court rejects the Government's targeting or minimization procedures.

It is not as clear as it should be that FISA and the criminal wiretap 
law are the sole legal means by which the Government may conduct 
electronic surveillance.

Its sunset provision is December 31, 2013. For legislation as 
complicated, important, and controversial as this, Congress should 
reevaluate it much sooner.

The bill purports to eliminate the ''reverse targeting'' of 
Americans, but does not actually contain language to do so. For 
instance, it has nothing analogous to the House bill's provision on 
reverse targeting, which prohibits use of the authorities if ''a 
significant purpose'' is targeting someone in the United States.

It does not fully close the loophole left open by the Protect America 
Act, allowing warrantless interception of purely domestic 
communications.

It does not require an independent review and report on the 
administration's warrantless eavesdropping program. Only through such a 
process will we ever learn what happened and achieve accountability and 
closure on this episode.

Add it all up, and the takeaway is clear: This bill is inconsistent 
with the


way FISA was meant to work, and it is inconsistent with the way FISA 
has always worked.

The Judiciary Committee's FISA bill shows that there is a better way. 
The Judiciary Committee's version is faithful to the traditional FISA 
balance. It shares the same basic structure, but it addresses all of 
the problems I listed above. The Judiciary bill was negotiated in 
public, which allowed outside groups and experts to give critical 
feedback. It was also negotiated later in time than the Intelligence 
bill, meaning we had the benefit of reviewing their work.

Like the Intelligence Committee's bill, the Judiciary Committee's 
version also gives the executive branch greater authority to conduct 
electronic surveillance than it has ever had before. Make no mistake, 
it too is a major grant of power to the intelligence community. But 
unlike the Intelligence Committee's bill, the Judiciary Committee's 
version sets some reasonable limits that protect innocent Americans 
from being spied on by their Government without any justification 
whatever.

No one should lose sight of how important title I of FISA is. The 
rules governing electronic surveillance affect every American. They are 
the only thing that stands between the freedom of Americans to make a 
phone call, send an e-mail, and search the Internet, and the ability of 
the Government to listen in on that call, read that e-mail, review that 
Google search. In our ''information age,'' title I of FISA provides 
Americans a fundamental bulwark against Government tyranny and abuse. 
If we enact the title I that is now before us, we will undermine that 
bulwark.

Unfortunately, the exact same thing would be true if we enact the 
Intelligence Committee's title II.

The Nation was shocked to learn earlier this month that the CIA had 
destroyed videotapes showing employees using severe interrogation 
techniques. The willful destruction of these tapes by the CIA obviously 
raises serious questions involving obstruction of justice.

But this is not the only coverup that the administration has been 
involved in lately. President Bush has been demanding that Congress 
grant retroactive immunity to telecommunications companies that 
cooperated with the administration's illegal surveillance program. He 
wants us to pretend that this whole episode never happened.

I oppose granting any form of retroactive immunity to these 
companies, and I urge my colleagues to support the amendment to strike 
title II from the FISA bill. Amnesty for telecommunication companies 
may help the administration conceal its illegal spying, but it will not 
serve our national security, and it will further undermine the rule of 
law.

Let's not forget why we are even talking about this issue. At some 
point in 2001, the Bush administration began a massive program of 
warrantless spying. New reports suggest that the administration began 
its warrantless spying even before 9/11. The administration never told 
Congress what it was doing. In clear violation of the FISA law and in 
complete disdain for the fourth amendment, it also never told the FISA 
Court what it was doing.

Because the Bush administration secretly ignored the law, we still do 
not know how deeply this program invaded the privacy of millions of 
innocent Americans. The push for immunity by this administration is a 
push to avoid all accountability for a wiretapping program that was a 
massive violation of the law.

FISA has been in force for 29 years. It was designed from the 
beginning to allow flexibility in pursuing our enemies. It was enacted 
with strong bipartisan support in 1978, and it has been amended on a 
bipartisan basis some 30 times since then. It has enhanced Americans' 
security and safeguarded our liberty. Every previous administration has 
complied with FISA. But the Bush administration apparently decided that 
FISA was an inconvenience. With the help of certain phone companies, it 
secretly spied on Americans for years, without any court orders or 
oversight.

There is still a great deal we don't know about this secret spying, 
but what we do know is alarming. Numerous reports indicate that it 
covered not only international communications, but also Americans' 
purely local calls with their friends, neighbors, and loved ones. A 
lawsuit in California has produced evidence that at the Government's 
request, AT&T installed a supercomputer in a San Francisco facility 
that copied every communication by its customers, and turned them over 
to the National Security Agency.

Think about that. The National Security Agency of the Bush 
administration may have been intercepting the phone calls and e-mails 
of millions of ordinary Americans for years.

The surveillance was so flagrantly illegal that even lawyers in the 
administration tried to fight it. Nearly 30 Justice Department 
employees threatened to resign over it. The head of the Office of Legal 
Counsel, Jack Goldsmith, testified that it was ''the biggest legal mess 
I had ever encountered.''

Mr. Goldsmith himself acknowledged that ''top officials in the 
administration dealt with FISA the way they dealt with other laws they 
didn't like: they blew through them in secret based on flimsy legal 
opinions that they guarded closely so no one could question the legal 
basis of the operations.''

Think about that as well. The President's own head of the Office of . 
Legal Counsel states that the administration's policy has been to 
''blow through'' laws it doesn't like, in secret, so that its actions 
cannot be challenged. The Bush White House has repeatedly failed to 
understand that our Government is a government of laws, and not of men.

The administration's secret spying program has taken a heavy toll on 
our country. Its failure to follow the law has made it more difficult 
for prosecutors to put terrorists behind bars; for intelligence 
professionals to avoid civil and criminal lawsuits; and for the public 
to trust its Government. In the name of making us safer, the 
administration's reckless disregard for the law has made us less safe, 
and countless Americans fear their rights have been endangered. That 
sorry record demands accountability, not immunity.

Here is another fact that no one should lose sight of. From the very 
beginning, telecommunications companies have always had immunity under 
FISA when they comply with lawful surveillance requests. In fact, the 
Senate Judiciary Committee worked closely with AT&T, and the company 
played a major role in drafting FISA's immunity provisions in the 
1970s.

To be completely protected from any liability whatever, all a company 
needs under FISA is a court order or an appropriate certification from 
the Attorney General. That is it. Just get one of those two documents, 
and you are off the hook.

So in this debate, let us be clear that we are not talking about 
protecting companies that complied with lawful surveillance requests. 
We are talking about protecting companies that complied with 
surveillance requests that they knew were illegal.

Immunity for the phone companies would be bad policy on many levels. 
First, it is premature even to be talking about this subject. Even 
though the President is demanding immunity for companies that may have 
broken the law, he will not tell all Members of Congress which 
companies broke the law, how they broke the law, or why they broke the 
law. He is asking us to legislate in the dark.

Immunity for the telecoms for warrantless wiretapping violates the 
basic structure and purpose of FISA. The industry helped draft FISA, 
and they perform a major role under it. Here is how this system was 
explained in the House Intelligence Committee report on the original 
legislation:




 Requiring the court order or certification to be presented 


 [to the carrier] before the assistance is rendered serves two 


 purposes. It places an additional obstacle in the path of 


 unauthorized surveillance activity, and, coupled with the 


 provision relieving the third party from liability if the 


 order or certification is complied with, it provides full 


 protection to such third parties.


If phone companies can ignore these requirements, this system of 
checks and balances collapses. That is exactly what happened here. The 
telecoms are supposed to provide an essential safeguard for protecting 
Americans' private information. Because Congress and the courts usually 
don't know about wiretapping activities, this role of the telecoms is 
crucial. Immunity for the telecoms undermines the basic design of our 
surveillance laws.



Instead of undermining those laws, we should apply them in a court of 
law to discover and punish illegal activities. The administration has 
used the scare tactic of claiming that lawsuits will jeopardize 
national security by leaking sensitive information. That argument 
ignores the fact that the media have already exposed the existence of 
its warrantless surveillance program and the role of some telecoms in 
assisting this program. In addition, it would be foolish to assume that 
the terrorists don't already know that we are trying to intercept their 
phone calls and e-mails.

The administration's argument also ignores the numerous safeguards 
used by courts to protect sensitive information. No one is advocating 
that the NSA disclose its specific methods or targets in open court. 
Even if someone did seek such disclosure, the Federal courts have 
procedures that have protected Government secrets for generations.

The administration has also suggested that allowing these lawsuits to 
proceed might jeopardize national security by deterring phone companies 
from future cooperation with surveillance requests. This too is sheer 
nonsense. Under FISA, companies already have absolute immunity for any 
lawful cooperation. Future companies will be deterred only from 
cooperating with illegal surveillance requests, which is the whole 
point of the law. We do not want this shameful episode to happen again.


The phone companies will suffer only the same harm that befalls any 
company that violates the law. The administration contends that the 
telecoms may be bankrupted if the lawsuits continue. In other words, 
the administration is telling us these companies may have engaged in 
lawbreaking on a scale so massive they could not afford the penalty if 
they are brought to justice. But massive law breaking is an argument 
against immunity, not for it. If the concern is the companies' 
financial health, the answer is not to throw out the rule of law but to 
legislate reasonable remedies, such as damage caps.

Immunity for the telecoms would also violate basic principles of 
fairness and justice. The administration repeatedly claims immunity is 
''a matter of basic fairness'' because the companies were doing their 
patriotic duty. That is a strange conception of fairness.

Telecom companies have clear duties under the law. They also have 
highly sophisticated lawyers who deal with these issues all the time. 
If a company violated its clear duties and conducted illegal spying, 
fairness demands it face the consequences.

It is precisely because fairness and justice are so important to the 
American system of government that we ask an independent branch--the 
judiciary--to resolve such legal disputes. There is nothing fair or 
just about Congress stepping into ongoing lawsuits to decree victory 
for one side and deny injured parties their day in court.

Frankly--frankly--the whole ''patriotic duty'' argument we have been 
hearing from the White House is hard to take seriously. If the 
allegations against the telecoms are true, then we are not talking 
about ambiguous points of law. As a Federal judge remarked in one of 
the leading cases:




 AT&T cannot seriously contend that a reasonable entity in 


 its position could have believed that the alleged domestic 


 dragnet was legal.


We are not talking about what happened in the frantic weeks and 
months immediately following 9/11. We are talking about alleged 
violations of Americans' rights that went on for 5 years--5 years--in 
total secrecy, on a scale that has never been approached in our 
history.

If the telecoms had followed the law instead of the Bush 
administration, the administration could have come to Congress and 
obtained any needed changes in the law. In a democracy, it is the job 
of the legislature to amend laws to fit new circumstances. It is not 
the job of the legislature to rubberstamp illegal conduct by the 
Executive.

Some of the telecoms might have been doing what they thought was good 
for the country. Some of them might simply have been doing what they 
thought would preserve their lucrative Government contracts. We simply 
do not know. But either way, it is not the role of the 
telecommunications companies to decide which laws to follow and which 
to ignore. FISA is a law that was carefully developed over many years 
to give the executive branch the flexibility it needs, while protecting 
the rights of Americans. It is the companies' legal duty--and their 
patriotic duty--to follow that law.

Nothing could be more dangerous for Americans' privacy and liberty 
than to weaken that law, which is precisely what retroactive immunity 
is meant to do. Yesterday's newspapers disclosed that in December of 
2000, the National Security Agency sent the Bush administration a 
report asserting that the Agency must become a ''powerful, permanent 
presence'' on America's communications network--a ''powerful, permanent 
presence'' on America's communications network. Under this 
administration, that is exactly what the NSA has become. If the phone 
companies simply do the NSA's bidding in violation of the law, they 
create a world in which Americans can never feel confident that their 
e-mails and phone calls are not being tapped by the Government.

Finally, amnesty would stamp a congressional seal of approval on the 
administration's warrantless spying. If Congress immunizes the telecoms 
for past violations of the law, it will send the message Congress 
approves what the administration did. We would be aiding and abetting 
the President in his illegal actions, his contempt for the rule of law, 
and his attempt to hide his lawbreaking from the American people. 
Voting for amnesty would be a vote for silence, secrecy, and 
illegality. There would be no accountability, no justice, no lessons 
learned.

The damage will not stop there. The telecommunications companies are 
not the only private entity enlisted by this administration in its 
lawbreaking. Think about Blackwater and its brutal actions in Iraq, or 
the airlines that have flown CIA captives to be tortured in foreign 
countries. These companies may also be summoned to court one day to 
justify their actions. When that day comes, the administration may call 
yet again for retroactive immunity, claiming the companies were only 
doing their patriotic duty as ''partners'' in fighting terrorism.

The debate we are having now about telecom amnesty is not likely to 
be the last round in the administration's attempt to immunize its 
private partners. It is only the opening round. In America, we should 
be striving to make more entities subject to the rule of law, not 
fewer. Giving in to the administration now will start us down a path to 
a very dark place.

Think about what we have been hearing from the White House in this 
debate. The President has said American lives will be sacrificed if 
Congress does not change FISA. But he has also said he will veto any 
FISA bill that does not grant retroactive immunity--no immunity, no 
FISA bill. So if we take the President at his word, he is willing to 
let Americans die to protect the phone companies. The President's 
insistence on immunity as a precondition for any FISA reform is yet 
another example of disrespect for honest dialog and the rule of law.

It is painfully clear what the President's request for retroactive 
immunity is about. It is a self-serving attempt to avoid legal and 
political accountability and keep the American people in the dark about 
this whole shameful episode. Similar to the CIA's destruction of 
videotapes showing potentially criminal conduct, it is a desperate 
attempt to erase the past.

The Senate should see this request for what it is and reject it. We 
should pass this amendment to strike title II from the FISA bill. Our 
focus should be on protecting national security, our fundamental 
liberties, and the rule of law, not protecting phone companies that 
knew they were breaking the law.

I am second to no one in wanting to make sure our intelligence 
agencies have all the flexibility and authority they need to pursue the 
terrorists. We need to pass a FISA bill that will keep America strong 
and protect our liberty. The bill reported by the Judiciary Committee 
will do that.