# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `f8880a672a04753152a0da1908a0cf53`
`Mr. BENNET — 22 January 2010`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today 
to honor the life and heroic service of Army Specialist Brian R. 
Bowman. Specialist Bowman, a member of the 1st Battalion, 12th Infantry 
Regiment, 4th Infantry Division at Fort Carson, CO, died on January 3, 
2010. Specialist Bowman was serving in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom in Ashoque, Afghanistan, and sustained injuries when insurgents 
attacked his patrol using improvised explosive devices and small 
weapons. He was 24 years old.

A native of Crawfordsville, IN, Specialist Bowman moved to Fort 
Carson in 2007 when he was assigned to the 2nd Infantry Regiment. 
Specialist Bowman joined the Army in August 2006. He was deployed to 
Afghanistan in May 2009, where he worked as a health care specialist, 
or combat medic.

During over 3 years of service, Specialist Bowman distinguished 
himself through his courage, dedication to duty, and willingness to 
take on any challenge--no matter how dangerous. Commanders recognized 
his extraordinary bravery and talent, bestowing on Specialist Bowman 
numerous awards and medals, including the Army Good Conduct Medal, the 
National Defense Service Medal, and the Afghanistan Campaign Medal with 
Bronze Service Star.

As a combat medic, Specialist Bowman worked on the front lines of 
battle, providing emergency first aid and care to his fellow 
servicemembers. He is remembered by those who knew him as a consummate 
professional and friend who they could turn to in times of need. Most 
of all, they remember his devotion to his wife and his country.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' 
Specialist Bowman's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by 
selflessly putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He 
lived without fear.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield was 
uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Specialist Bowman will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To Specialist Bowman's mother Paula, his father Robert, his wife 
Casie, and all his friends and family I cannot imagine the sorrow you 
must be feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain of your loss will be 
eased by your pride in Brian's service and by your knowledge that his 
country will never forget him. We are humbled by his service and his 
sacrifice.
