---
---

# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `f88ee7b476cb5d53aba632fc7a2ee213`
`Mr. BOND — 24 January 2008`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, again, we rise with a renewed consideration 
of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Amendments Act, or the FISA 
Amendments Act, of 2008.

I thank the chairman for his very powerful and thoughtful statement 
on behalf of the original bill presented by the Senate Intelligence 
Committee, with the managers' amendments that we will incorporate.

Simply put, this legislation gives the Intelligence Community the 
tools it needs right now, and over the next 6 years, to protect our 
country. The Protect America Act, passed by Congress in August of this 
past year, allowed the intelligence community to close critical 
intelligence gaps. I disagree that the Protect America Act was flawed. 
It was a temporary measure. It didn't deal with all of the subjects we 
needed to deal with, including protections for carriers alleged to 
participate. But it did not cut back on any of the basic protections in 
FISA, and it served to provide us the means in this 6-month period to 
collect vitally needed intelligence on foreign subjects who might be 
planning attacks either on our troops abroad or in the United States. 
But this vital legislation expires in 1 week, and we must not let those 
gaps reopen.

We initially began debate on the FISA Amendments Act in December of 
last year. As was their right, several Members of this body decided a 
filibuster was a better course for our national security. So we 
listened for hours to unfounded allegations about the terrorist 
surveillance program and to mischaracterizations about the Intelligence 
Committee's FISA bill. Ultimately, this bill was pulled from the floor 
and further debate was postponed until now.

Early this week, we returned to the Senate. Now, given that the 
Protect America Act expires in a few short days, one would have thought 
that FISA would be the first up on the agenda. I don't want to minimize 
the importance of Indian health legislation, or any other important 
legislation that the Senate should consider, but let's be clear: If the 
intelligence community cannot protect this country from terrorist 
attacks, then it doesn't matter much what else we debate or pass. We 
have to protect the country first and protect our troops and other 
personnel abroad in order to have a country, and we must improve upon 
other legislation. But here we are, only a few days shy of the PAA's 
expiration, and the drumbeat is there already by some stating we need 
more time to consider the Intelligence Committee bill; we should just 
do a short extension of the PAA. That is a bad idea. Some have called 
it flawed.


I believe it is important, but I believe the Intelligence Committee 
bill goes much further and does what we absolutely must do to make sure 
not only that we have the ability to collect on foreign terrorists who 
are planning attacks here or abroad but also to protect the 
constitutional rights, the privacy rights of Americans.

The Intelligence Committee spent over 9 months looking at FISA 
modernization. We have held hearings. We have gone out to NSA and 
watched its


implementation. We have reviewed the terrorist surveillance program. We 
have looked at the implementation of the PAA. We have gone to review 
all the documents upon which the TSP--the terrorist surveillance 
program--was based, and we have come with a solid bipartisan bill. We 
are ready to act, and the intelligence community is waiting for us to 
act, and so are our allies abroad who have relied very heavily and 
continue to rely upon our collection ability to help keep their 
countries safe. Every day, we hear about attacks that have been 
disrupted by allies across the world. Without being specific in any 
areas, I think one can generally assume that our collections have 
helped our allies protect themselves against attacks in their 
countries.

There is no reason to extend the PAA, much as I liked it. We have a 
bill that is responsible, and it is more effective. It addresses 
concerns about the PAA. It gives our intelligence operators the tools 
they need, and it ensures that our private parties will continue to 
cooperate with the Government. I am pleased the majority leader and 
minority leader have come to agreement on this fact.

As the majority leader stated appropriately 2 days ago when he 
supported moving to this legislation immediately--and I thank the 
majority leader for that--we need to act now, and I hope we will be 
able to pass a solid FISA bill in short order. Some hope today. I join 
with that hope. I am not an incurable optimist, but we can always hope.

We have before us the Senate Intelligence Committee bill, S. 2248, 
which was passed out of the committee by a 13-to-2 vote. We need 
bipartisan legislation. This is bipartisan. Nothing is ever going to be 
unanimous in an area that is this technical and this important, but we 
passed it 13 to 2. This bipartisan bill will give the intelligence 
community the authority and flexibility it needs to track foreign 
terrorists quickly and efficiently.

In November, the Judiciary Committee reported a substitute on a 
straight party-line vote. The substitute added numerous provisions that 
were not fully vetted with the intelligence community. Regrettably, it 
ignores significant concerns expressed by working-level officials in 
the Department of Justice and the intelligence community--the very 
operators who know how this complex, technical, and overwhelmingly 
supervised and reviewed system works. The Judiciary Committee also 
ignored the concerns of its own minority members. As a result, this 
totally partisan substitute changed the Intelligence Committee bill in 
ways that will gut--gut--our intelligence surveillance capabilities. 
This substitute amendment is what we will be considering first this 
morning.

Last night, at the very last minute, the chairman of the Judiciary 
Committee filed a new substitute that modified the original Judiciary 
Committee substitute. Regrettably, the Judiciary Committee did not 
share this with my staff, and we only received the strikeout version, 
one that shows the changes between the substitute that has been at the 
desk for 2 months now and this last-minute switch. We received it from 
the ranking member's staff late last night.

After a quick review, my staff and I can tell my colleagues that the 
core problems remain, and although the DNI and the Department of 
Justice also have had little time to digest it, they have told us that 
their primary concerns remain. They cannot support this new substitute. 
It does not get the job done.

Conversely, the Intelligence Committee's bipartisan bill was drafted 
after months and months of studying the collection program. Members of 
our committee went out to the National Security Agency--we refer to it 
as NSA--to see how the program worked and to inspect the layers of 
protection built into their collection methodologies to make sure the 
agency stayed within the bounds of law.

Over several months, Chairman Rockefeller and I put together an 
agreement with our committee on both sides which adds more protections 
to the constitutional rights and the privacy rights of American 
citizens. I can be very proud and I think the Members of this body can 
be very proud that we have extended and improved protections for 
American citizens.

We worked with the intelligence community representatives and the 
Department of Justice lawyers to make sure our legislation would work 
and would not impede vital collection--more protection but keep the 
system working. I think that is where we ought to be, and that is where 
we are in the underlying Intelligence Committee bill.


Most importantly, we fashioned a legislative solution that both 
Democrats and Republicans could accept. I thank our Intelligence 
Committee members and staffs for their efforts, long and hard work, to 
come up with this bipartisan bill. Our bill has been publicly available 
for scrutiny for over 3 months now, and it remains the most solid 
bipartisan way to move forward.

Two provisions of the bill, however, were added to the initial markup 
without the input of the intelligence community. As a result, both 
provisions in the bill could cause unintended operational consequences, 
and they needed to be fixed. Chairman Rockefeller, Senator Whitehouse, 
Senator Wyden, and I worked together with the community to come up with 
solutions to these problems, and I hope we can have broad support for a 
managers' amendment to remedy that situation. One of these provisions 
provided important new protections, but it had to be reworked to 
protect Americans abroad in a manner which was consistent with our 
structure of laws and those of other countries.

The DNI has told us that with the managers' amendment fixing these 
two problems, the community will support our bill. That is important 
for Chairman Rockefeller and me because we want to pass a bill that 
works and will become law. It would do no good to pass a bill that some 
may feel good about or may pass for good politics but does not work for 
those who protect us in all of our intelligence agencies. So the DNI's 
support of this bill, in particular, is critical. Consequently, with 
these fixes applied, we will also have a bill the President will sign 
into law.

My intention as a floor manager--and I believe Chairman Rockefeller 
stands shoulder to shoulder with me in this--is to pass a bill that the 
DNI supports and that the President will sign. I believe we have that 
right now with the fixes to be applied.

If we attempt to change key painstakingly constructive provisions or 
to add bad provisions, however, we could hinder the intelligence 
community's ability to do its job and jeopardize the DNI's support for 
this bill and the chances of it becoming law. With the expiration of 
the PAA in a few days, I believe this is not the path we should take in 
the Senate. Anyone who has read FISA knows that it is very technical 
and each word matters. So it is imperative we do not add provisions 
without the input of the intelligence community, and we need to listen 
to their concerns. They are experts. They operate an incredibly 
technical and complicated system that is overlaid with legislation 
carefully drafted to recognize their capabilities, their limitations, 
and, most importantly, protections for U.S. persons and American 
citizens. We saw firsthand how difficult it is to deal with amendments 
that are not cleared with the intelligence community to make sure they 
work.

Let me just say that the Department of Justice and the Office of the 
Director of National Intelligence have been very helpful throughout the 
process, but we should not mistake their willingness to provide 
technical support to avoid operational problems with support for 
certain provisions. So while the DNI may have provided some technical 
support, there are several amendments that I believe, if added to our 
bill, could cause problems for the intelligence community, lose the 
support of the DNI and thus our ability to get this bill signed by the 
President.

First, I expect there to be some efforts to undo or modify the civil 
liberty provision in the Intelligence Committee's bill. Chairman 
Rockefeller has already delivered a very strong and persuasive argument 
for this liability protection. It has been said once very well by the 
chairman, but this being the Senate, it needs to be said again, and I 
will be happy to do so.

This provision is essential to foreign targeting authorities. Without 
retroactive and prospective civil liability protection, it becomes much 
less likely that our private sector partners will be


able or willing to assist us in the future. That means the intelligence 
community would have to spend great time compelling telecommunications 
providers in each instance who are reluctant for fears of civil 
lawsuits to assist, to work with us to track terrorists.

The committee studied this issue, and we reached a broad bipartisan 
consensus that civil liability protection is for providers and not 
immunity for Government officials. That was the appropriate action. I 
repeat, the civil liability provision in this bill is for private 
parties who may have assisted the Government. There is no immunity or 
protection for the Government itself.

Additionally, the concept of ''substitution,'' where the Government 
is substituted for the private party as a defendant in court, is not an 
acceptable alternative. That would allow litigation to continue, 
including discovery against the providers, thereby risking the 
disclosure of our sensitive intelligence sources and methods.

At his confirmation hearing, I asked General Hayden, the nominee for 
the head of the CIA, who had previously been the head of NSA, how badly 
the disclosures of our intelligence collection methods had hurt us in 
the battle to get the intelligence we need. General Hayden told us 
ruefully that we are now applying the Darwinian theory to terrorists: 
We are only capturing the dumb ones.

With substitution, we would not only be risking disclosure of sources 
and methods, we would also, however, embitter private parties against 
us whose cooperation becomes public, thus endangering their personnel, 
their facilities, and their business reputation here and abroad, with 
grave consequences to those who had participated, as Chairman 
Rockefeller said, in compliance with a Government directive from the 
highest officials in the land, and we would put taxpayers' dollars at 
risk for trial lawyers' coffers. We would also incur great expense in 
defending those lawsuits. The orders were issued--and I will discuss 
more about this later--under the President's article II constitutional 
power and responsibility to conduct foreign affairs.

Let me say a few words about an idea that came up shortly before the 
debate in the summer. Some are suggesting that before civil liability 
protection is granted, the FISA Court, the Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Court--and I will refer to it as the FISC--the FISC or 
other court must determine that those providers who allegedly assisted 
the Government with the terrorist surveillance program acted in good 
faith and pursuant to an objectively reasonable belief that the 
directives were lawful.

As reflected in the Intelligence Committee report accompanying S. 
2248, the committee has already made this determination. We have 
studied this issue extensively, and we concluded that civil liability 
protection was the best and only solution. Why would Congress want to 
turn over its collective judgment to a single judge and pass a law 
stating that judge's ruling would be the final word on this issue? We 
don't even know what that ruling would be. This does not make much 
sense to me. We already went through this problem with the judicial 
variance on the FISC before, remember? The President's program was put 
under FISA, and then changes within the court, different judges, led to 
a problem with the intelligence gaps that spurred the need for short-
term legislation last August. Congress should not roll the dice on this 
issue, close our eyes, cross our fingers and say: Whatever judge 
happens to be on call the day this issue comes up, well, that will be 
the final word on this question. Remember, the FISC's function is to 
approve applications for electronic surveillance. It is not set up for 
nor has established competence in this area. It makes no sense.

The providers need civil liability protection, and they deserve it 
now, not the prospect of further proving their good faith before yet 
another court. The longer this litigation drags on, the more likely it 
is that our intelligence sources and methods will be disclosed and the 
communications providers' businesses will suffer and they, their 
facilities, and their personnel will be at risk. It also becomes more 
likely and understandable that these companies, on which both the law 
enforcement and the Intelligence Committee rely for critical and timely 
information, could refuse to assist us in times of our need because of 
valid business reasons about the potential for further lawsuits. And I 
am not just talking about terrorist threats, I am talking about a 
provider refusing to give information voluntarily to help find a 
kidnapped child or help to find those who sexually entrap children on 
the Internet or proliferation or what have you. Should we be willing to 
take this risk? I don't think so.


Now, let me move to some of the issues the Judiciary Committee 
modified in our bill to the detriment of the overall product. Let me be 
clear, the new substitute that was filed last night is the same old 
wolf in different clothing. It does not alleviate any of these 
concerns. The Intelligence Committee bill included, as part of our 
compromise, a reiteration of the exclusive means provision in the 
current law, which states that FISA is the ''exclusive means'' in 
statute for conducting electronic surveillance. No statute that 
Congress ever passes can trump the President's article II powers. 
Numerous courts, and even the FISC itself, have reviewed this and 
stated the powers given to the President under the Constitution cannot 
be extinguished by a law passed by Congress. Even though we have passed 
a law on exclusive means, we have also passed a law called the 
Authorization for the Use of Military Force, which has to be read in 
conjunction with FISA.

Clearly, even those who believe a statute can somehow impinge on the 
article II constitutional powers of the President must recognize the 
powers of the President, if they were lessened by FISA, were 
reinvigorated by AUMF. Congress is making a statement in ''exclusive 
means'' that we want to see surveillance conducted under FISA. We have 
seen many attempts to broaden this language, but this is an area that 
calls for extreme caution. Exclusivity is more than a policy statement, 
it has a real operational component.

As we now know from our own experience in drafting this provision, 
the slightest word change can impede vital intelligence collection. I 
believe the Intelligence Committee's version addresses Members' views 
about exclusivity and further strengthens that statement, while at the 
same time preserving the ability to gather intelligence. Conversely, 
the majority's Judiciary Committee substitute now requires an act of 
Congress after the next attack, potentially before our intelligence 
professionals can do what they need to protect us. There is no 
exception if the attack comes from al-Qaida or another terrorist 
organization.

Now, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that as we 
stand here today, we have no idea where or when the next attack may 
come. Are we, each of us, willing to take the risk that Congress may 
not be able to act; that for whatever reason Members cannot make it 
back to Washington, DC, we cannot get a bill passed and signed by the 
President, which would leave our intelligence community without the 
authorities it needs to counter the threat or protect this country? I, 
for one, don't want to be explaining that back home to my constituents 
in Missouri. It is another nice sounding idea politically to some that 
makes no sense operationally and shuts down some potential intelligence 
collection.

Moreover, the Judiciary Committee's bill, and the latest substitute, 
would allow the FISC to assess compliance with the minimization 
procedures used for the acquisition of foreign intelligence information 
from individuals outside the United States. Minimization procedures are 
designed to protect U.S. identities if communications of U.S. persons 
are accidentally swept up in a surveillance operation or if a U.S. 
person is party to a conversation with a target--a lawful target--but 
that U.S. person is not of intelligence interest him or herself. We 
minimize, suppress, don't even record the name of that U.S. person. If 
there is no intelligence value, then that person is not at risk. To be 
at risk, that person would have to be receiving or instituting a call 
to a lawful target. That means that if somebody is calling a family 
member abroad, a business activity abroad, then there is no reason to 
fear that even those conversations would be picked up. But if others 
are picked up that are of no intelligence value, they would be 
minimized or suppressed.



Giving the court the ability, supposedly, or the responsibility to 
assess compliance may sound like a good idea in the abstract, but when 
we talk about foreign targeting, we are outside the FISC's expertise. 
The FISC was created solely to issue orders for domestic surveillance 
on a particular target. Congress, in 1978, recognized the court's 
expertise over domestic matters but specifically left foreign 
surveillance activities to the executive branch and the intelligence 
community and the oversight of the intelligence committees. By now 
requiring judicial review of minimization procedures for a foreign 
target, we would take a huge step back from a system that worked well 
for almost 30 years. So there is a red line, and I need to draw it.

But that line is already drawn. As a practical matter, when the FISC 
assesses compliance with minimization procedures, it would be second-
guessing trained analysts' decisions about which foreign terrorist to 
track and how to do that. The FISC knows what to look for when it 
issues a warrant to tap someone's phone in Virginia, but when it comes 
to analyzing intelligence leads and deciding which foreign terrorists 
or spies should be surveilled, the court is simply not competent to 
make these judgments. This is what assessing compliance would have them 
do. The court knows this. Let me point to the court's own words from 
its published opinion on December 11, over a month ago, in the case In 
re: Motion for Release of Court Records. There the FISC judges say they 
are:




 Not expected or designed to become experts in foreign 


 intelligence activities, and do not make substantive 


 judgments on the propriety or need for a particular 


 surveillance. Even if a typical FISA judge had more expertise 


 in national security matters than a typical district court 


 judge, that expertise would still not equal that of the 


 Executive Branch, which is constitutionally entrusted with 


 protecting the national security.


That is a quote from the court which some want to give this 
responsibility which they say they do not have. We need to heed the 
words of the FISC and not require them to make judgments they 
themselves believe are better left to the executive branch.

Let me repeat for my colleagues to hear clearly. The FISC, the FISA 
Court itself, is virtually saying: Congress, don't do this. We are not 
the right ones to make this determination. We should be wary to 
disregard their own assessment of their own competency in this vital 
intelligence collection area.

Additionally, throughout this debate, we must remember we are talking 
about foreign terrorists operating in foreign countries intent on 
harming us and our interests. Senator Leahy's new substitute slightly 
modifies a requirement from the original substitute that the Department 
of Justice inspector general conduct a comprehensive review of the 
President's Terrorist Surveillance Program. That modification, however, 
does not address the underlying concerns with his provision. This 
review simply is not necessary and is beyond the expertise of the DOJ 
inspector general.


The Intelligence Committee has had numerous briefings and hearings on 
the TSP. We have spoken at length with lawyers from the Department of 
Justice and with the operators, and we have read document after 
document on which this program was based. We have spent more time on 
FISA than I ever dreamed possible or that I ever wanted to do. Yet I 
have not heard one convincing argument as to why this review must be 
conducted. Again, it may look good politically, it may make good sound 
bites, but we have reviewed this program to death over the past year. 
Yet another review is redundant, unnecessary, and because of that is 
wasteful.

Finally, as a part of my agreement with Chairman Rockefeller, we 
included a 6-year sunset in the bill. Personally, I think sunsets are a 
bad idea when we are talking about national security. The Attorney 
General, General Mukasey, has stated repeatedly, ''There are no sunsets 
in our enemies' fatwas.'' I understand what he is getting at. The 
terrorists' desire to get after us is not limited. We should give our 
intelligence operators something they can hang their hat on when they 
retool their systems and move forward with intelligence collection.

If there is a debate about sunsets, I am considering saying we ought 
to get rid of even the 6-year sunset. I agreed to 6 years to get this 
bill moving, but shorter than that I don't believe is acceptable. If we 
provide stricter, shorter term sunsets, that would tell the private 
entities and our intelligence communities that Congress's view on civil 
liability protection is only temporary and the power for our 
intelligence collection is only temporary. This new statute gives our 
operators confidence in the new statute. It gives our collaborating 
allies abroad confidence we will be there.

Let me make one thing clear. Our job in the Senate Intelligence 
Committee, and the same on the House side, is to review intelligence 
collection methods. We review it on a semiannual or even monthly basis. 
If we find there is a problem with this bill, we should not have to 
wait until the sunset comes to change it. We see a problem, we need to 
fix it. We don't need to wait for 6 years or 4 years to fix it. If 
there is a problem, let's start fixing it as soon as we find it.

A sunset does not prevent us from passing new legislation when we see 
fit. No sunset at all would put even greater pressure on us to make 
sure it is working properly. If in 1 year the bill was shown to be 
inadequate, we should act immediately to fix it, not wait until the 
sunset. So I don't like sunsets, but the 6 years was a compromise with 
the chairman and other members of the committee to produce this bill.

The Judiciary Committee, in this new substitute, seeks to further 
shorten the time frame to 4 years. Our intelligence collectors, our 
troops on the battlefield, the private parties who depend on this 
authorization need certainty, not authorities that change depending on 
what year it is. A 4-year sunset would not give them the certainty they 
need.

In conclusion, our intelligence collectors, our troops who are in 
harm's way, need this legislation, and our country needs this 
legislation. But let me talk about the troops. In May, when I visited 
Iraq, I talked directly with the commander of our Joint Special 
Operations Command, who told me the limitations under the old law, 
shutting down of the collection that occurred because of the new 
technology, so adequately described by the chairman, prevented him from 
collecting key information he needed to protect our troops in the 
theater, on the battlefield. My son happened to be one who was there at 
the time. That got my attention. It had the attention of the troops and 
the commanders. The commander told us he could kill or capture top al-
Qaida leaders, but he was not able to collect signals intelligence on 
them. Does that make sense? No.

The bottom line in this story of FISA is terrorists were able to use 
technology and our own outdated laws to stay a step ahead of us. We 
can't afford to give them that step. The Intelligence Committee's bill 
gives our intelligence operators and law enforcement officials the 
tools they need to conduct surveillance on foreign terrorists and 
foreign countries planning to conduct attacks inside the United States 
against our troops and against our allies. It is the balance we need to 
protect our civil liberties without handcuffing our intelligence 
professionals.

I hope we can do the right thing--pass this bill, with the perfecting 
managers' amendment but without any additional changes that will 
compromise its functionality and prevent it from becoming law. We need 
a bill both Democrats and Republicans support, the DNI supports, that 
is good for the intelligence community, and that the President will 
sign into law.

That means we need to dispense with the Judiciary substitute that is 
immediately before us and proceed with consideration of amendments to 
the bipartisan Intelligence Committee bill. I look forward to making 
this happen.

I yield the floor.