---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f89149fd7dcaf3b67fade2826fd5adaf`
`Mr. CARPER â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. Thank you, Mr. President.

I come today to address the Chamber and our colleagues on the subject 
of cost-effective airlift in the 21st century. Before I do that, 
though, I wish to preface my remarks with this:

Today, we have received an interim report from the administration on 
whether progress is being made in Iraq--specifically, progress with 
respect to the 18 benchmarks that were required in legislation we 
enacted in May of this year. From the news accounts this morning, there 
are few surprises. The U.S. military, as expected, is doing its job--a 
tough job. The problem is, the Iraqi Government and too many of its 
elected leaders are not.

The Iraqi Parliament remains hamstrung by profound, seemingly 
irreconcilable differences. Despite months of American prodding, the 
Iraqi lawmakers have yet to agree on any of the major issues before 
them: how to share oil wealth, how to share power, when to schedule 
elections, de-Baathification, how to settle the sectarian differences 
that so badly divide their country.

We also have news this morning that al-Qaida is once again on the 
move, bringing to the forefront how the President's policies in Iraq 
have effectively created not fewer terrorists but more and, 
unfortunately, made our country, I fear, less safe.

According to U.S. intelligence estimates, al-Qaida has rebuilt its 
operations to levels we have not seen since just before the September 
11 attacks. These reports indicate that the al-Qaida network is 
regrouping along the Afghan-Pakistani border. The CIA says there is 
evidence of more training, more money, more communications, and 
increased activity among al-Qaida. The results of such activity, as we 
know too well, could be deadly.

This new report tells me we have diverted too many of our resources 
to fighting a war that simply cannot be won by military might alone, 
and in doing so we have lost ground on the war on terror. Osama bin 
Laden remains at large 6 years after 9/11, and has seemingly taken 
peaceful refuge somewhere in Afghanistan or Pakistan. That is 
unacceptable.

This week and next, we are going to be taking a series of votes on 
how best to change the course in Iraq and refocus our energy on where 
it belongs--rooting out al-Qaida and going after their terrorist 
networks abroad and at home in a way that makes sense and will better 
guarantee success.

Part of that means, beginning later this year, that we begin to 
redeploy a portion of our troops from Iraq to put additional pressure 
on, and encouragement for, the Iraqi Government to do what it must do 
to help bring peace to their nation. Part of that means refocusing our 
efforts on how to win the war on terror, smoke out Osama bin Laden, 
and, in doing so, make our world a safer place.

I hope our President will work with our colleagues and with me to 
chart a winning course on the war on terror. We cannot get there alone. 
This is something we must do together.

Having said that, I want to now focus on cost-effective airlift in 
the 21st century.

The Senate is writing legislation this week intended to equip our 
Armed Forces to meet our national security threats and keep our country 
safe. Doing so is one of the foremost responsibilities of this body.

Our Armed Forces are charged with providing our Commander in Chief 
with flexible options for responding to a wide variety of threats 
across the globe. In Iraq, our Armed Forces are keeping the lid on a 
civil war and protecting civilians from terrorists.

In Korea, our Armed Forces are charged with guarding an ally's border 
and deterring aggression on the part of a large conventional military.

In the Pacific and the Persian Gulf, our Armed Forces protect 
American interests through the projection of naval power and carrier-
based air power.

At home, our National Guard provides our Nation's Governors with 
critical response capability to cope with natural disaster, such as 
Hurricane Katrina.

At times, it can seem as though the demands on our military are 
practically limitless. Unfortunately, the resources available for 
equipping our military to meet these demands are not. At a time when 
our Federal budget remains mired in the red, we need to be looking for 
ways to meet our military requirements in a fiscally responsible 
manner.

I have come to the floor today to talk about one way we can do that. 
I have come to the floor, as I have said, to discuss cost-effective 
airlift in the 21st century.

Although the air men and women of our strategic airlift fleet rarely 
receive the attention they deserve, the reality is our military could 
not perform any of their missions I described if it were not for their 
hard work and dedication. Strategic airlift involves the use of cargo 
aircraft to move personnel, weaponry, and material over long 
distances--often to combat theaters on the other side of the globe. 
During Operation Desert Storm, U.S. aircraft moved over 500,000 troops 
and more than 540,000 tons of cargo. During the current war in Iraq, 
airlift sorties have made up the majority of the nearly 30,000 total 
sorties flown by U.S. military aircraft.

Strategic airlift enables our military to respond to threats wherever 
they occur in the world real time. Not only must our fighting men and 
women be transported to the fight, they must be continuously 
resupplied. Airlift makes that possible.



Most of the supplies, materiel, and weaponry moves abroad aboard 
ships. Almost all of our personnel and a good deal of cargo, however, 
are transported by aircraft. That airlift is provided by a combination 
of U.S. military airlift and commercial aircraft. The three military 
aircraft doing most of the heavy lifting are the C-5, the C-17, and the 
C-130. Together, they provide what I call an ''air bridge''--an ''air 
bridge''--to Iraq, Afghanistan, and to other troubled spots around the 
world.

Over the past 10 years, the United States has reduced its Cold War 
infrastructure and closed some two-thirds of its forward bases. 
Therefore, to maintain the same level of global engagement, U.S. forces 
must now deploy more frequently and over greater distances. Since 9/11, 
the scale and pace of operations has increased dramatically.

There have been several efforts in recent years to quantify our 
military's strategic airlift requirement. The most recent one is the 
Mobility Capabilities Study, which was commissioned by the Pentagon, 
and was completed in February of last year. It concluded that the 
Nation's airlift requirement could be met with a fleet of 112 C-5s and 
180 C-17s.

Our current strategic airlift fleet--including aircraft currently 
flying and aircraft on order--consists of 111 C-5s and 190 C-17s. An 
update to the Mobility Capabilities Study included in the President's 
budget this year confirmed that this mix is sufficient to meet our 
airlift needs.

The problem at the moment is not that we have too few aircraft; the 
problem is that most of the C-5s in our airlift fleet are not as 
reliable as they could be. There are two ways in which we could choose 
to address this problem: One, we could fix the aircraft we have, or, 
two, we could purchase new aircraft.

Families face a similar choice when they have a problem with their 
car. Should they fix their car or should they buy a new one? Usually 
families make this decision based on one of three factors: Can the car 
they have be fixed? If it can, is it cheaper to fix than buying a new 
one? If the car can be fixed, and it is cheaper to fix than buying a 
new one, do they have so much money that they can afford--in spite of 
the greater cost--to go ahead and buy a new car anyhow?

We should ask ourselves the same question when it comes to paying for 
military aircraft within the confines of a responsible Federal budget.

Let's look at this first chart about meeting our Nation's airlift 
needs. We pose on the chart three questions: Can the aircraft we have 
be fixed? Can they be fixed for less than the cost of purchasing new 
aircraft? Or, finally, can we afford to buy new aircraft anyhow, even 
if it is unnecessary and more costly?

The answer to the first question is, yes, the aircraft can be fixed. 
The answer to the second question--can it be fixed for less than 
purchasing a new aircraft--is, yes, it can. Can we afford to buy new 
aircraft anyhow, even though it is unnecessary and may be more costly? 
The answer to that, I believe, is no.

First, let's consider the question of whether the aircraft we have 
can be fixed. There are currently programs in place to fix C-5s. The C-
5s are being upgraded with new engines, new hydraulics, new avionics, 
and more than 70 other improvements throughout the aircraft. The 
contractor responsible for these upgrades has committed to the Air 
Force that the improvements to these aircraft will result in at least a 
75-percent mission capable rate. That is up from 60, 65 percent today.

If that level of reliability can be achieved, our current fleet of C-
5s and C-17s is sufficient to meet our airlift needs now and for the 
foreseeable future. That is the conclusion of both the military's 
latest analyses of our airlift needs and an independent study done by 
the Institute for Defense Analyses. To date, 3 C-5s--one a C-5A and two 
of them C-5Bs--have received the complete upgrades that are eventually 
planned for the entire C-5 fleet. General Schwartz, who is commander of 
the U.S. Transportation Command, has said he is encouraged by the 
performance of these aircraft and believes the target mission-capable 
rate of at least 75 percent will be met and possibly exceeded. General 
Schwartz isn't the only one giving the modernized flights high praise.


One of the modernized B models came to the Dover Air Force Base about 
2 months ago for their annual inspection. I had the opportunity to see 
it and talk to the crew. I asked one of the pilots aboard the aircraft 
who has some 4,000 flight hours on the C-5, ''How does it fly?'' His 
response: ''Like a rocket.''

While most acknowledge that C-5s can be fixed, there are those who 
argue that many of them are not worth fixing. I have heard two versions 
of this argument. The first is that even if most of the fleet can and 
should be fixed, at least 25 or 30 of the older C-5As are such ''bad 
actors'' that they should be retired. Unfortunately, those who have 
made this claim have done little to substantiate their claim. Congress 
has asked the Air Force to provide a list of these bad actors by tail 
number. To date, as far as I know, the Air Force has not done so. A 
recent analysis by the Congressional Research Service suggests a 
possible reason why. Perhaps these bad actors do not exist.

Let's look at this chart, my second chart here: The C-5 reliability 
argument. These are the words paraphrased from the Congressional 
Research Service: An examination of C-5 reliability and maintainability 
statistics for the past three fiscal years does not identify any 
obvious subset of the C-5 fleet that stands out as notably 'bad 
actors.'

The other version of the ''some of the C-5s are not worth saving'' 
argument draws a line in the sand, not between a set of bad actors and 
the rest of the fleet but between the older C-5As and the newer C-5Bs. 
It is a common perception that the C-5As do not perform as well as the 
C-5Bs, but that perception again is contradicted by the facts. Again, 
to quote the CRS study, the recent CRS study--I think it was released a 
couple of months ago:




 C-5A performance and reliability is not uniformly inferior 


 to C-5B performance. Over the past three years, for example, 


 the C-5A fleet has averaged a higher mission departure 


 reliability rate of over 83 percent than the C-5B fleet, 


 which is right around 81 percent.


However, some claim that even if C-5As are not uniformly less 
reliable, inevitably they will incur structural problems because they 
are older than the C-5B models. This claim continues to be made even 
after the Air Force established a Fleet Viability Board in 2003 to 
evaluate the C-5A fleet and render judgment on the suitability for its 
continued service. The board 4 years ago reviewed all the relevant data 
and concluded that the C-5A fleet is structurally sound and viable for 
at least 25 years and probably longer. To be sure--to be sure--the Air 
Force actually tore a C-5A apart in late 2005 to inspect it from top to 
bottom and end to end. The aircraft was given a clean bill of health.

The evidence at hand strongly suggests, at least to me, that we could 
fix the aircraft we have. Here is the question, though: Can we fix them 
for less than it would cost to replace them with new aircraft? On this 
point, it is not even close.

Before I go on to explain why that is the case, let me pause for a 
moment to say that as a former naval flight officer--I served 5 years 
active duty, 18 years in the Reserve; I have about 3,500 hours in a P-3 
Navy aircraft. Let me say I am a great admirer of the C-17 aircraft. I 
have supported, and I suspect the Presiding Officer has supported, 
acquisition of additional C-17 aircraft out of the 190 that have been 
bought so far. Having said that, it is a highly reliable workhorse. Its 
mission-capable rate hovers around 85 percent. It can land on large 
airfields and small airstrips, all of which highly commend the aircraft 
to us, and that is why we ordered and bought so many of them. In my own 
State, the Dover Air Force Base has begun receiving a squadron of 13 C-
17s. We are delighted. We are excited. We are enthusiastic about their 
arrival.

Having said that, let me add that the cost of modernizing a C-5 is 
roughly one-third--let me say that again--the cost of modernizing a C-5 
is roughly one-third the cost of purchasing a new C-17. Modernizing a 
C-5 is roughly one-third of the cost of purchasing a new C-17. 
Moreover, the C-5 can carry twice as much cargo as the C-17. By 
modernizing a C-5, we buy twice as much hauling capacity for one-third 
the cost. Let me say that again. By modernizing a C-5, we can buy twice 
as much hauling capacity for one-third the cost.



Now, I know some dispute these figures. First, they argue that 
modernizing a C-5 costs more than one-third of the cost of purchasing a 
new C-17. They do so by suggesting that the C-5 reengineering program 
is experiencing dramatic cost growth. Again, the facts say otherwise. 
According to CRS, claims that the cost of C-5 modernization has risen 
substantially--and this is what CRS says; this is a quote--''appear to 
be somewhat at odds with official cost reports from the Department of 
Defense Comptroller.''

The Defense 2006 Select Acquisition Report for the C-5 reengineering 
program showed average procurement unit cost growth of under 3 percent. 
Now, it is never good news when a program cost growth goes over 
expectation, even by a little. However, 2.9 percent cost growth is not 
particularly remarkable when compared to other Defense acquisition 
programs.

Moreover, CRS reports that:




 Projections of future cost growth are driven in large part 


 by the Air Force's decision to slow down the C-5 


 modernization production and to extend it by two years.


Over the last 5 years, the Air Force has pushed this program further 
and further out into the future--not 2 years but 5 years. Because 
stretching out the program leads to insufficient production rates, 
costs have increased.

The contractor responsible for modernizing C-5s has offered the Air 
Force a firm fixed-price contract in order to guarantee no more cost 
overruns. All the Air Force has to do to nail down a definite, 
affordable price is not stretch out the program any further. The ball 
is in the Air Force's court. If the Air Force does not choose to keep 
the program on schedule, thereby securing an affordable, fixed price, 
one has to wonder--at least I wonder--whether the Air Force is 
interested in making the most cost-effective choice for taxpayers.

Advocates of retiring C-5s have also disputed the fact that a C-5 can 
carry twice as much as the C-17. In fact, they have begun to refer to 
C-5s as ''C-17 equivalents'' for purposes of meeting our airlift needs.


However, the C-5 clearly boasts a greater payload capacity than the 
C-17, as this chart shows. This is the C-5 and C-17 capabilities 
comparison. Let's look at it: The C-5 and the C-17. MA tanks, the C-5 
carries two, the C-17 carries one; Bradleys, the C-5 carries four, the 
C-17 carries two; Apache helicopters, the C-5 carries six, the C-17 
carries three; multiple launch rocket systems, the C-5 carries four, 
the C-17 carries two. And Patriot missile launchers, the C-5 carries 
two and the C-17 carries one.

Despite the fact its cargo capacity in cubic feet for the C-5 is only 
60 percent greater than the C-17, the C-5 hauls double the load in 
several cases and actually makes more efficient use of its cargo space 
when transporting large weapons systems, I think as we see here. 
Despite the size advantage of the C-5, advocates of retiring the C-5 
still make two arguments to ignore the vehicle's greater hauling 
capacity.

First, they point out the C-5s currently have reliability problems 
that negate the C-5s' greater size and capacity. The problem with this 
argument is we are addressing C-5 reliability problems through the 
modernization process that our friends in the Air Force continue to 
delay. The second argument I hear for overlooking the C-5's superior 
hauling capacity is it doesn't actually matter in practice. Some claim 
that since both C-5s and C-17s generally fly missions carrying less 
than the full weight they are capable of carrying, it makes little 
sense to compare what they are capable of carrying when fully loaded. 
Well, my office was told the reason C-5s and C-17s generally carry less 
than the capacity is they ''cube out'' first. That means the limiting 
factor is more often the number of pallets these aircraft can carry, 
rather than the weight they carry. However--here is an important 
point--this point reinforces that C-5s actually carry twice as much as 
the C-17s, since C-5s have 36 pallet positions and C-17s have only 18.

So can we fix the aircraft we have for less than the cost of 
replacing them with new aircraft? I believe the answer is yes.

Let's look at this last chart, some of the benefits of the C-5. This 
is a paraphrase of the CRS report that came out a couple months ago. 
This is what the paraphrase is. It says: Current cost estimates of 
modernizing the C-5 are about one-third that of a new C-17, and the C-5 
will carry twice the payload of the C-17.

Not my words but those of CRS.

We can fix the aircraft, the C-5As and Bs that we have, and it is 
clearly less expensive to do that than to buy new aircraft. But can we 
afford to purchase new aircraft anyhow, even though it is unnecessary 
and exceedingly costly? In 2006, the Federal Government, our Federal 
Government, ran a deficit of just under a quarter of a trillion 
dollars. OMB tells us the deficit for 2007 this year will be around 
$200 billion. We are rapidly approaching the retirement of the baby 
boomers, which will put unprecedented strain on Social Security, on 
Medicare, and on Medicaid. In short, we are spending beyond our means, 
and we are using the Social Security surplus to mask an even larger 
operational deficit.

The Defense Science Board tells us that:




 Each year of additional C-17 production beyond 2008 will 


 represent an additional $2.4 billion acquisition and $2 


 billion to $3 billion life cycle cost commitment.


I would ask: Aren't there better ways we could use some of this money 
than purchasing aircraft the military has not requested, credible 
studies suggest to me--and I think to others--that we don't need?

Even if we confine our focus on the Air Force budget, it is clear 
there are better uses for this money. The strategic airlift fleet--C-5s 
and C-17s--is the youngest of the Air Force's aircraft fleets--the 
youngest--not the oldest, the youngest. If we have several billion 
dollars lying around, I would suggest there are other fleets in the Air 
Force inventory in more urgent need of new aircraft than the strategic 
airlift fleet, including tankers, C-130s, to name a few. Yet if you ask 
the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, he will tell you this is the 
reason the Air Force is not and will probably not put money in its own 
budget to retire C-5s and replace them with new aircraft.

When we actually sit down and do the math, it is difficult to argue 
that C-5s, with wings and fuselages that have another 30 or 40 years of 
useful life, should be retired and replaced with new C-17s. It is even 
more difficult to argue that it is cost-effective to do so.

The only reason left to consider for why we would possibly want to 
retire C-5s and replace them with new C-17s is that the C-17s can 
perform missions that C-5s cannot.

It is true that C-17s and C-5s have different attributes. The C-17 
can land on short, austere runways that the C-5 cannot. But it is 
important to keep in mind that only a small minority of strategic 
airlift missions involve taking off from or landing on short, austere 
runways. On the other hand, the C-5 can carry outsized cargo that the 
C-17 cannot carry.

In fact, the evidence suggests that if we have a deficit, in terms of 
matching our capabilities with our needs, it is that we have too few 
modernized C-5s, not too few C-17s. For instance, during Operation 
Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom, the Department of Defense has been 
forced to lease a Russian aircraft called the An-124 to carry outsize 
and oversize cargo because C-17s cannot carry this cargo, and not 
enough C-5 aircraft have been available.

An-124s are Russian aircraft that are comparable to the C-5s. 
Actually, they are a little bigger than C-5s. It is ironic that some 
are talking about retiring C-5s when the C-5s we have are insufficient 
to meet our needs and we must rely on an even larger Russian aircraft 
to help fill the gap.

Mr. President, I have come to the floor on more than one occasion 
during my time in the Senate to discuss this issue. I want to be honest 
with you; sometimes we act as though our usual obligation to be careful 
stewards of the taxpayers' dollars does not apply when it comes to 
defense spending. I want to remind my colleagues of this: When we spend 
beyond our needs, there is an opportunity cost. We end up shortchanging 
our troops in the field, failing to provide them with the body armor 
and up-armored vehicles they need, or we end up shortchanging our 
troops when they come home, failing to actually tend to their physical 
and psychological needs, which is a problem and concern we hope to 
address by the


amendment that was discussed before me.

Let me finish today by commending the leadership of the Armed 
Services Committee and its SeaPower Subcommittee, which has 
jurisdiction over this issue. They have shown a commitment over the 
years to identifying the facts on this issue and making decisions based 
on the facts.

The Defense bill reported out of the Armed Services Committee--the 
bill before us today--retains the requirement in current law that we 
fully flight-test three C-5s that have been modernized before making 
any further C-5 retirement decisions. The committee also approved 
report language requiring the Air Force to provide Congress with a 
report this year, giving us an up-to-date assessment on the performance 
of these three C-5s which have undergone modernization upgrades, as 
well as the projected cost of upgrading of the rest of the C-5 fleet.

I thank the members of the committee and the chairman and Senator 
McCain, as well as their staffs, for their work on this issue. I hope 
we pass this Defense authorization bill which is before us. I hope the 
Senate will insist on its position in this regard in the conference 
with the House.

I yield back my time.