# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `f8931d2864dfb4172ec9faf660bd2aef`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, this is a sad and disappointing day for this House and 
for America. Once again, the majority is placing politics over national 
security, politics over reasoned policy, politics and partisanship over 
citizens and sanity.

Clearly this bill was not written in response to what our generals 
think, whose interim report was released just hours ago. Instead, it 
was written in reaction to polls and to political pressure from 
MoveOn.org and others. This isn't a thoughtful piece of legislation to 
achieve success in Iraq or success for America.

The lack of definition for a limited presence included in the bill 
reveals that this is just another cynical attempt by the majority to 
politically pander. How terribly disappointing.

In effect, this legislation is a vote of no confidence in our 
military commanders, and it's a shot of encouragement to al Qaeda. It's 
pure political opportunism, and it's devoid of military strategy.

As Members of Congress, we have a greater responsibility than just to 
politics. We have a responsibility to do what is in the best interest 
of long-term American security. We must be thoughtful. We must be 
deliberate in our actions.

We have a capable leader, General David Petraeus, unanimously 
approved by the Senate, the expert in counterinsurgency strategy. He 
was given by this Congress, just a few weeks ago, until September, to 
make positive progress in Iraq and report.

But this majority isn't interested in what our military commanders 
are capable of, or the situation on the ground. Their only interest is 
politics, in raising the white flag and in coming home without any 
thought or definition as to when or where they are willing to defend 
our security.

But because the political climate is ripe, the majority wants to 
undercut our troops. It's upsetting, it's sad, and it's very 
disconcerting that politics would trump national security.

This bill signals to our enemies that it doesn't matter what the 
commanders say. It says that thoughtful military strategy takes a back 
seat to good politics.

This isn't an exit strategy, it's a political strategy. How terribly 
disappointing.

I respectfully ask my colleagues to vote ''no'' on this bill and to 
commit to positively working together on behalf of the American people 
and American security.