# FROM FOSSIL FUELS TO RENEWABLES
## `f8967c703b6ae515507f7dbba2329276`
`Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, I want to talk about a 
subject today that at least five groups in our country have a common 
cause in. They come from quite different perspectives, but they all end 
up at the final common pathway. And these groups are those who are 
concerned with national security. They are concerned because our 
country has only 2 percent of the known reserves of oil in the world, 
and we use 25 percent of the world's oil and import almost two-thirds 
of what we use. And as the President says, we get a lot of that from 
countries that don't even like us.

And so those who are concerned about national security are urging 
that we make a transition from these fossil fuels, most of which are 
owned by countries over there, and move to renewables so that we can 
have a sustainable source of energy for our country from a national 
security perspective.

There is a second group of people who believe that our burning of 
these fossil fuels is polluting the environment to an unacceptable 
level. And it is not just the greenhouse gases, because that introduces 
us to a third group. But it is all of the other pollutants that come in 
the atmosphere as a result of using these fossil fuels in all the ways 
that we use them to produce energy, coal, fire, power plants, our 
automobiles, our trains, heating our buildings, all the ways that we 
use energy.

By the way, you can make an argument that even if you are producing 
more CO2, that may not produce global warming if you are 
producing it by burning hydrocarbons in a way that puts a lot of other 
pollutants up in the atmosphere.

I remember a number of years ago when Carl Sagan, the great 
astronomer, was noting that if we had a nuclear war we might go through 
what he called nuclear winter; and the trash thrown up into the 
atmosphere as a result of the nuclear explosions, he


thought, might block enough of the Sun's rays that there would be a 
cooling of the Earth so that we would go through a kind of an ice age. 
Indeed, there is some natural phenomena that give some credibility to 
that possibility.

Whenever there is a major volcano that goes off, an eruption that 
throws millions of tons of trash up there that may circulate for a 
couple of years before all the fine particles finally come down, we can 
see a degree or two of temporary cooling in the Earth as a result of 
that. So there is the environmental group that is concerned about our 
excessive burning of these fossil fuels and the pollutants that come 
from that, and they are very interested in conservation, in efficiency, 
and moving to true renewables.



And then there is the growing group of those who are concerned that 
the release of these greenhouse gases, CO2 being one of the 
major ones, is warming our Earth.

Now, it is true that our Earth is warmer than it has been in the last 
10,000 years, since the last Ice Age, and maybe as warm as it has been, 
some say, in the last million years if in fact we have been here that 
long. It is not certain that there is a cause-effect relationship 
between CO2 and warming.

But when you go back through history, and they do this in Antarctica 
by doing ice borings, and that is a desert down there; they have less 
than 2 inches of precipitation per year; it doesn't fall as snow, it 
falls as tiny little ice granules, and that accumulates very slowly. 
There is nearly 2 miles of ice piled up at the South Pole down there. 
And so with borings you can go in there and you can look back through 
tens of thousands of years, and the scientists can tell pretty much 
what the climate was like and what the temperatures were by the kinds 
of materials that were deposited there during that time. And they note 
that every time that CO2 was up, the Earth was warmer. So 
that at least is a presumptive evidence that CO2 certainly 
as a greenhouse gas is the cause of the present global warming that we 
are looking at.

And, of course, what the global warming people want is to move away 
from fossil fuels, because what we are doing with fossil fuels is 
releasing into the atmosphere carbon dioxide that was sequestered by 
plants a very long time ago.

As a little boy, I knew that that is what was happening, because we 
lived up in western Pennsylvania and we had a coal furnace; as a matter 
of fact, we didn't buy it, we mined it on our own farm.

There was an abandoned mine on the farm and we got the services of a 
miner in the little local town and he opened up the mine and we shared 
the coal that he got from it, and we would use coal as it came from the 
mine, some big chunks and down to very small ones, and some were too 
big to put in the furnace. And as a little boy, when it was my time to 
tend the furnace I would have to go down and sometimes break a lump of 
coal so that I could get it into the furnace.

I remember taking that sledgehammer that stood by the wall there and 
breaking the lump of coal, and once in a while it would open up and 
there would be a fern leaf. I remember as a little kid looking at that 
fern leaf and wondering, how long ago did that fern live and die and 
fall over and now be compressed under dirt and with time it finally 
converted to coal? So as a little boy I knew that the coal that we were 
burning came from plants that lived a very long time ago, and they had 
sequestered the CO2 then over thousands of years perhaps.

And now what we are doing in a relatively few years, because we are 
in the age of oil, only about 150 years now in the age of oil, and we 
are now releasing into the atmosphere all the CO2 that has 
been taken out of the atmosphere over a very long time period.

So what the global warming concerned people are interested in is an 
energy economy that uses the energy that we are producing. If you are 
burning the tree that grew, you are now releasing into the atmosphere 
the CO2 which the tree took out of the atmosphere. So 
although, and if it was possible, I am not sure that it is, that we 
could get as much energy from these alternative renewable sources that 
we are now getting from fossil fuels, you can use them to your heart's 
desire and you wouldn't increase the CO2 in the atmosphere 
because for every pound of CO2 that you released into the 
atmosphere, that pound was taken out of the atmosphere by the tree or 
the grass or whatever grew that you were getting energy from.

And so what the people concerned with global warming want us to do is 
to move as quickly as we can from fossil fuels to these renewables. So 
they have common cause with the environmental people and with the 
national security people.

And then there is a group of people growing, not large yet but 
growing, who believe that, even if you don't have any concern about the 
environment, even if you don't have any concern about global warming, 
even if you don't think that it is a national security risk to be 
getting so much of our oil from over there, it just isn't going to be 
there because we are going to have such a phenomenon as peak oil. By 
the way, our country reached that plateau in 1970. We will talk about 
that in a few moments.

And then there is a fourth group that really ought to have common 
cause here, and that is the group that is concerned about what could 
America do to get back as a premier manufacturing Nation? And you know 
that we are not now, because all you have to do is to look at the cars 
on the road and where they are made, and I think more than half of them 
are now made overseas. And all you have to do is go into a store and 
buy things and just look at the tag at where it is made. And I have to 
look and look and look to find something that is made in the United 
States anymore. You would make a lot of money if your wager was that 
the first thing you pick up is going to be made in China, because 
almost always the first thing you pick up is made in China.

So we desperately need an area in which we can be premier, in which 
we can export to the world, and I would submit that that would be in 
the energy efficiency and alternative energy area. There is no society 
in the world that is half as creative and innovative as the American 
people if we are challenged and if we see the need and if we see the 
goal.

So I wanted to talk today about this phenomenon which I think that 
these five groups have common cause in: Those that are concerned about 
national security, those that are concerned about the environment and 
isn't our air polluted enough, those that are concerned with global 
warming, those that believe that by and by the oil just isn't going to 
be there, the Moon isn't made out of green cheese and the Earth isn't 
made out of oil and, quite obviously, it is not going to last forever, 
and then the group that is looking for something where we can again 
become a premier engineering and manufacturing Nation. And, of course, 
we have now relinquished that premier position to other parts of the 
world.

The first chart that I have here kind of explains a lot of our 
dilemma, the World According to Oil. And I found this, and I found it 
so intriguing that I have shown it now a couple of times. But what this 
does is to show you what our planet would look like if the size of the 
nation was relative to how much oil it had. And, boy, do we have a 
warped geography here.

Here is Saudi Arabia, and it dominates. Look how big Saudi Arabia is. 
How many times could we put the United States in Saudi Arabia, 20? That 
is about how much more oil they have than we have. Canada looks pretty 
big here; they have got a meaningful amount of oil compared to the 
lower 48, compared to their size. Look at Venezuela down here, it just 
dwarfs the rest of South America. And look at the North of Africa here.

The countries that we think of as being important in the world 
economy like England and Europe and so forth, look at them there, they 
look like little splotches here on the globe if the countries were 
sized according to the amount of oil that they have.

Iraq. So you can see why people are concerned about Iraq, it is a 
pretty big reservoir of oil. Little Kuwait. If you look at a map of 
that part of the world, you will see that Kuwait, and Saddam Hussein 
thought that it looked like a province down there in the most 
southeastern part of Kuwait that he wanted


to reclaim it and that is why he went in more than a decade ago, but it 
is tiny compared to Iraq. You could fit the United States into Kuwait 
five, six times. Here is Qatar, a little nation so small you can hardly 
see it on the globe but there it is probably as large as the United 
States. Iran, now problems with Iran, note how large Iran is.

Something of particular note on this. The two countries that contain 
about 2/1/2/ billion people total, more than 1 billion now in India, 
and 1,300,000,000 in China, and look at how big they are relative to 
oil. Russia north of them, which has only 140 million people, dwarfs 
them. By the way, notice how big Russia is, 1/1/2/ or maybe twice as 
big as the United States, it doesn't have all that much oil. We have 
only 2 percent of the known reserves, this is about 2 percent of that 
total volume of oil nations there. And Russia looks big as an oil 
exporter because they don't use that much oil so they can export, but 
they really don't have all that much oil compared to countries like 
Saudi Arabia and so forth.

The next chart is a prediction that was made by a very famous speech 
that was given 51 years ago the 8th day of this month. And I will 
submit that, within a decade, this may well be recognized as the most 
important speech given in the last century. It was a speech given by M. 
King Hubbert, who was an oil geologist and he worked for the Shell Oil 
Company. And there was a convention of oil people in San Antonio, Texas 
on the 8th day of March 1956, and he got up and gave an absolutely 
audacious speech. It was inconceivable and unbelievable when he gave 
the speech.


What he said was that the United States, and if you look back in your 
history at that point in time we were king of oil; we were producing 
more oil and I think exporting more oil than any other country in the 
world. And he predicted that this giant in oil would reach its maximum 
production of oil in just about 14 years, and he was predicting that by 
about 1970 we would reach our maximum production of oil.

Now, he was talking only about the lower 48. He couldn't imagine at 
that time that we would be able to go out and drill in the Gulf of 
Mexico where there are now 4,000 oil wells, I think, and he did not 
take into account that we might find oil. I expect the technology for 
getting it out of there probably would have been very difficult at that 
time. So he was predicting the lower 48. And that would be everything 
here of the rest of the U.S. and Texas. You see how big Texas was here. 
Maybe a third in total oil we have ever produced has come from Texas. 
And that would be the lower 48.

As you see, right on schedule in 1970, his prediction came true. That 
shocked a lot of people. And whereas he had been an object of ridicule 
before that, now he became kind of a legend in his own time.

And then we found that huge strike of oil in Alaska in Prudhoe Bay up 
at Dead Horse, I have been there; I saw the beginning of that 4-foot 
pipeline, through which for a number of years now about one-fourth of 
our total oil has flowed. And then the nongas liquids you see up here. 
If you add those two in, there was just a bump on the way down the 
other side of Hubbert's Peak.

And here we are today. In the lower 48, we are producing considerably 
less than half of the oil that we produced in 1970. And if you even add 
to that the liquids made from gases and the Gulf of Mexico oil, now 
that is recent enough that people can remember that, and you may 
remember the hype that went on over that. Gee, we don't have to worry 
about oil for the foreseeable future. We found this enormous amount of 
oil in the Gulf of Mexico; and, as I mentioned, there are about 4,000 
oil wells there. Notice that hardly made a blip in our slide down the 
other side of Hubbert's Peak.

The next chart shows a depiction of Hubbert's Peak, and this is from 
a very interesting publication. This is in a publication by CERA. Now, 
CERA is one of the few organizations that believes that you don't need 
to be worrying about oil for the next number of years, and they have 
this chart in their publication and they intend to repudiate and 
ridicule M. King Hubbert with this chart. And they are saying that M. 
King Hubbert couldn't have been right because look at the actual data 
here.

Now, this is the total U.S. production, the red, and the yellow is 
the Hubbert's lower 48. And what he is saying was that Hubbert must 
have been all wrong, because the actual lower 48 production are these 
green things down here, and they think that is far enough away from the 
yellow that his prognostication is repudiated by this.

I would think the average person looking would say, well, gee, he was 
right on. Wasn't he? He said it was going to peak in 1970, that is 
1970. He said it would go downhill after that. Well, it didn't go 
downhill quite as fast as he thought it would, but it certainly has 
gone downhill after that. Maybe he couldn't have imagined that we would 
drill more than /1/2/ million oil wells in this country. We have more 
oil wells drilled in this country than all the rest of the world put 
together.

Now, the red here reflects that contribution from Prudhoe Bay and 
from the Gulf of Mexico that we saw in the previous one, that little 
blip going down the other side of Hubbert's Peak.