# A QUARTERLY REPORT CARD
## `f8a4b20a36e644702f124a42c226fafb`
`Mr. SMITH of Nebraska — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to be a part of this 
discussion here this evening, and certainly I consider it a great 
privilege to serve on the Budget Committee.

As witness after witness after witness told the Budget Committee that 
we should address the entitlement challenges we face and reform 
entitlements so that we can have a safety net, so that we can have an 
economy to preserve that safety net, we need to adopt some changes. And 
yet the budget that has been presented and is moving through the Halls 
of Congress does not address entitlement reform. That is my concern. 
That was the major thrust of the Budget Committee hearings, certainly, 
as I said, witness after witness addressing that.

But I stand here before you this evening concerned about the future. 
When I get asked why I would want to serve in Congress, I say it is 
because I care about the future. I care about the direction in which 
our country is heading. I believe that we need to encourage prosperity, 
not penalize it. And yet our tax policies are bound to penalize 
prosperity with the current budget.

We heard in the Budget Committee that we need to increase spending. 
More of the same. And, certainly, the supplemental, as so many folks 
know, this emergency supplemental spending bill contains items that are 
far from emergency in nature. I am afraid that there were too many 
politics being played in terms of funding the very necessary functions 
of our military so bravely serving overseas.

I am concerned about our future, and that is why I went to Iraq. I 
learned in Iraq that there are some bright spots. Certainly we have a 
lot of work to do. But it comes back to the economy. I am encouraged 
when I learn that there are more than twice as many merchant vessels 
traveling the one single waterway into Iraq from the gulf. I am 
encouraged when I see a developing police force perhaps in Ramadi. That 
is what contributes to the fundamentals of a sound economy with the 
rule of law.

But as we balance our policies overseas with our domestic policies 
here at home, we have to be mindful again of the future, the future 
that I believe can be bright with the sound, solid economy.

My friends so very eloquently pointed out the estate tax, commonly 
called the death tax. I can't help but think back to when I was 
visiting a business in my district, actually the Nation's largest 
producers of natural wool yarn. I didn't prompt this discussion 
whatsoever. But the second generation owner, or manager in this case, 
of this company said, Adrian, one thing you can do in serving in 
Congress is to reform or repeal the death tax. It will devastate us. 
''Devastate'' was her word.

Now, one might think that the Nation's largest producer of natural 
wool yarn would be big business, big corporations, all these big 
companies that people want to beat up on who provide jobs. No, this is 
a family-run operation with about 45 employees that just reinvested 
many dollars so they could double their output, so that they could take 
new customers because before they invested in some expansion, they 
couldn't take new customers. And yet our tax policies will penalize 
them.

And, quite honestly, I don't care how large an estate one might have, 
I think it is wrong, fundamentally wrong, and actually unconscionable 
that the government would lay claim to 55 percent of an estate. Some 
people say, well, these wealthy folks can plan around it. Some can. 
Boy, you had better plan your debt too, as so many folks cannot.

But it all comes back to the economy. And I believe in Republican 
budget principles that are sound, through promoting enhanced 
prosperity, by balancing the budget and continuing the tax relief, 
through making needed reforms to entitlement programs, as our Budget 
Committee witnesses pointed out, increasing accountability through 
budget and appropriation reforms to help end Washington waste, fraud 
and abuse.

When we look, Mr. Speaker, at what is before us with the budget, it 
is the largest tax increase in American history: $400 billion, that is 
with a B, $400 billion tax increase. And my friends and I, Mr. Speaker, 
believe that that will be damaging to our economy. And I say that 
because of the facts. The facts point out that when tax relief was 
brought about in 2003, the unemployment rate went down. GDP went up. 
Jobs were created. And I find that exciting.

When I entered politics a few years back, I never thought that I 
would become so enthused about economic principles about good, sound 
tax policy, but I have seen what tax policy can do over these last few 
years, that tax relief can create jobs. Tax relief can leverage a 
family's dollars, hard earned dollars in our economy so that we can 
have good, thriving businesses in all of our districts, large and 
small, rural and urban. We need a good sustainable farm bill that 
builds on the future, that uses our experiences from the past, Mr. 
Speaker, in realizing that we need to build our markets with our 
trading partners. And we can expect good, sound trade policy, not 
giving away everything, and so that we can help our energy markets, we 
can help our agriculture markets.

And especially I find it so exciting about the future when we see 
agriculture and energy coming together. I think we need to be careful 
when we talk about energy. As I was reading an article the other day, 
Time magazine, I had an article that said eating a T-bone steak is as 
egregious in our environment as driving a Hummer vehicle. I found that 
to be quite surprising, honestly. I certainly represent an area that 
probably contains more cattle than any other district in the United 
States. And I don't bring up this issue because of that, but I think 
that as we address our energy needs and looking to the feature, we need 
good commonsense policies.



And that is what I want to work on because I do care about the 
future. I care about entitlement reform. I care about a balanced budget 
so that we can encourage our coming generations to focus on the future, 
so that they can see even more opportunity and that their prosperity is 
not punished through bad tax policy.