---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS LENDING FUND ACT OF 2010
## `f8b14543f199a3ee2f8b7e48926d09ee`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 16 September 2010`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, sometime today the majority leader will 
file cloture on the motion to proceed to the Defense authorization 
bill, setting up a vote for next week on this important legislation. 
Under ordinary circumstances, this would be a straightforward, 
noncontroversial vote that could unite the two parties on a matter 
related to our common defense. But not this year.

This year, Democrats would rather use this bill to manufacture 
controversy. Worse still, in their determination to meet their own 
campaign promises ahead of the upcoming election, Democrats have 
decided to put their own political interests ahead of


the collective judgment of our military service chiefs who are still in 
the midst of a study about whether don't ask, don't tell can be 
repealed without hurting combat readiness. But this should not surprise 
anyone. For nearly 2 years now, Democrats have done their own thing. 
Americans have been asking Democrats for nearly 2 years to focus on the 
economy and jobs, and what they have gotten instead is one costly 
government-driven job after another that kills jobs and hurts the 
economy.

When it comes to matters of national defense, Democrats in Washington 
have established a clear pattern of making political decisions first 
and then analyzing the problem later. Whether it was the decision to 
close Gitmo before figuring out what to do with the terrorists who were 
housed there, to deny our intelligence community the ability to 
interrogate terrorists, an artificial timeline for withdrawal in 
Afghanistan or this latest decision to use a Defense authorization bill 
to move ahead with repeal of don't ask, don't tell before hearing back 
from the service chiefs, Democrats have shot first and asked questions 
later. In other words, they put their own ideological goals ahead of 
everything else.

I remind my colleagues we are fighting two wars and that our 
volunteer force doesn't ask for much. They ask that they be well 
trained, well equipped, that their families be cared for, and that we 
meet their selfless sacrifice with dignity and respect. This bill 
should be an easy one. We should be united and give our troops a 
responsible defense policy they need and then the Defense 
appropriations bill they need--without strings, without games, and save 
the politics for the campaign trail.

Another bill the Democrats have made needlessly political is the 
small business bill which we will also be voting on later today. 
Senator Hatch has offered an amendment that would fully extend the R&D 
tax credit, an amendment the Democrats blocked just before the August 
recess but which the President now appears to support. We will also 
have a chance to extend the biodiesel tax credit through the Grassley 
amendment. This amendment is essential to keeping producers 
competitive, but because of the majority's partisan tactics this credit 
has expired.

It is my hope our friends on the other side will now join the 
President and the Republicans in supporting these two important pieces 
of job-creating legislation. Unfortunately, the Democrats whole game 
plan over the last year and a half and through today is to tick as many 
items as possible off the liberal wish list while they still have a 
chance.

The American people think our friends on the other side should have 
spent a little more time worrying about 10 percent unemployment rather 
than legislative sideshows. If Senate Democrats truly want to do 
something for the private sector jobs in this country, they should 
support the bipartisan R&D tax credit of Senator Hatch and the 
biodiesel tax credit of Senator Grassley and then work with Republicans 
after that on preventing the looming $1 trillion tax hike Democratic 
leaders have so far ignored.

It is time our friends on the other side got serious about jobs and 
the economy. It is time they put the liberal wish list on the shelf and 
focused on the priorities of the American people.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.