---
---

# None
## `f8ba0db144113f86ef4ba7cb1dc58634`
`Ms. SUTTON — 10 May 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the honorable chairwoman for the 
time.

Mr. Speaker, our troops are brave and capable. They have fought 
heroically. But, Mr. Speaker, today we have an opportunity to tell our 
President that he can no longer ignore the American people, this 
Congress or the reality of the situation we face in Iraq.

We have the responsibility to provide oversight, to ensure that our 
brave and honorable troops are provided a mission based on a realistic 
assessment and an achievable goal before we ask them to risk life and 
limb to implement it. We must end the strain that we have put on our 
brave military men and women and their families, and we must act today.

Mr. Speaker, we know we must get our troops out of the crossfire and 
the violence of the raging civil war in Iraq. We know what must be done 
for our soldiers in Iraq to ensure the protection of them and our 
families here at home. Our military and our National Guard are 
stretched thin. We must rebuild and re-equip both. Our National Guard 
in Ohio is training and working on gear that is obsolete. So not only 
are our military men and women at risk in Iraq; we have our homeland 
exposed to national emergencies and other threats that we may face. But 
our President has refused to acknowledge the reality of the situation 
that we face as a Nation, and I and many other Members of this Congress 
will not allow the status quo to continue.

For this reason, I cosponsored and will cast a powerful ''yes'' vote 
in support of H.R. 2237. This bill, authored by Mr. McGovern, whom I 
respect tremendously for his courage and leadership, is responsible and 
will ensure the safe redeployment of our troops from Iraq. Our bill 
calls for the redeployment of our troops and allows Congress to take 
back from the President the reckless decisionmaking that we have seen.

Our bill also very importantly ensures a number of things: it 
protects the ability of our military to go after al Qaeda and other 
terrorist organizations in Iraq; it provides for the protection of 
diplomatic and other related U.S. personnel in Iraq; and, finally, it 
will truly shift our role in Iraq to training and equipping the Iraqi 
security forces.

Mr. Speaker, the time has come to end this war; and, unfortunately, 
the failed policies of this administration and lack of oversight from 
past Congresses have left us with few options. 3,372 of our troops, 
including 157 brave military men and women from Ohio, have died in this 
war. It is time we did the responsible thing for our heroic soldiers, 
for their families and for our Nation.