# None
## `f8bdb79a9bb1460f6d494bda2149b289`
`Ms. LEE — 19 June 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, first let me thank Chairman Obey, Speaker 
Pelosi and Chairwoman Slaughter for their countless hours and their 
leadership on this very difficult task.

I am opposed to giving this President over $160 billion with no 
strings attached to continue the disastrous war and occupation in Iraq. 
This is the biggest blank check ever. Ever.

The war and occupation in Iraq has put our country and economy in a 
hole, and when you are in a hole, you have got to stop digging in 
deeper and climb your way out. You don't dig yourself deeper in. Today 
that means funding the safe and responsible redeployment of our 
American troops and contractors out of Iraq.

The Lee amendment that I offered would have accomplished that. There 
is no way, no way, I will vote to continue funding any combat 
operations in Iraq. This funding needs to end. What the Lee amendment 
proposed was not to cut off funding for our troops, but to provide for 
their safe and responsible redeployment out of Iraq.

Although the supplemental retains one restriction that I have long 
championed, the prohibition against the establishment of permanent 
military bases in Iraq, it does not include the other indispensable 
condition, prohibiting the President from unilaterally binding the 
United States to an agreement with the government of Iraq that includes 
security assistance for mutual defenses without coming to Congress.

While I supported the amendment providing modest funding for urgent 
domestic priorities and for our GI educational benefits, I hope to see 
more of our economic needs addressed in a more fully and more 
comprehensive economic stimulus funding package.

The sad fact is that over the last 5 years, this administration has 
spent nearly half a trillion dollars on the Iraq war and occupation, 
and we have now a destabilized Iraq. We have tarnished our national 
image, and we have diverted national attention and resources from the 
real urgent challenges facing the American people.