# None
## `f8bdb634621ee4c7d392efd893a54b53`
`Mr. POE — 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. POE. I thank the gentleman for yielding. I want to congratulate 
the chairman, Mr. Oberstar, and Ranking Member Mica for their work on 
getting this long-delayed bill to the House floor, and I certainly 
support it. Both


the ranking member and the chairman have said, as long as I have been 
on this committee, that this is the most cooperative committee even 
though it is the largest committee in Congress. And it is true. It is a 
bipartisan committee that gets things done. We disagree, but we do it 
in a civil manner.

I am also impressed with Mr. Oberstar's knowledge of transportation 
history. He knows more about transportation that has occurred in the 
United States probably than all of us put together.

I do want to thank the committee for including in this WRDA bill the 
expedited completion of the study for the Sabine-Neches Waterway 
Project. I have been frustrated for the lack of progress by the Army 
Corps of Engineers to finalize this completion study.

The study report was started by the Corps in the year 2000, with a 
completion date of 2004. It was supposed to cost $6 million. And now it 
is 2007, and this project study is still not completed, and estimates 
on final cost of the project have now risen to $13 million. I 
appreciate the chairman's support for this study to be completed as 
soon as possible.

The Sabine-Neches Waterway is the riverway that separates Texas from 
Louisiana and flows into the Gulf of Mexico. Sabine-Neches is vital to 
not only southeast Texas, but it is essential for the national security 
needs of our Nation. It is the home of America's largest commercial 
military port and the Port of Beaumont, and it is second largest in the 
world. It is crucial for shipping military cargo to our troops in Iraq 
and Afghanistan and is America's largest importer of crude oil by 
tonnage. Approximately 20 to 30 percent of the Nation's jet fuel is 
produced by refineries on this waterway, including 80 percent of the 
jet fuel used by our military. This riverway supplies petrochemical and 
energy needs for southeast Texas and the rest of the Nation.

Section 508 requires the Army Corps of Engineers to expedite 
completion of this study whether or not to expand, widen, and deepen 
the riverway for the Sabine-Neches Waterway, and the joint statement 
further directs that this would be done as soon as possible. I hope 
this study is finished this year so that it will be included in next 
year's full WRDA bill and we can start moving dirt to widen, deepen, 
and make this riverway important not only for southeast Texas but for 
national security reasons as well. It is important for our economy, it 
is important for our recovering economy after Rita in southeast Texas, 
and I look forward to working on the next WRDA bill after this one is 
passed to have it completed.

Once again, I want to thank the ranking member and the chairman for 
their full support.