---
---

# None
## `f8cffa2d3262bf6945d378e018e7cdcb`
`Mr. ACKERMAN — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I thank my good friend, the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Mica) for 
introducing this important resolution that recognizes the historic 
events in Czechoslovakia in 1989 and enables Congress to reaffirm its 
strong friendship and support for the people of the Slovak Republic and 
the Czech Republic.

Twenty years ago, on November 17, communist riot police broke up a 
peaceful pro-democracy demonstration in Prague, brutally beating many 
of the student protesters.

Rather than silencing the students, however, these violent reprisals 
led to an avalanche of protests between November 17 and December 29 
that ultimately led to the fall of the Communist Party in 
Czechoslovakia.

In the days after the initial protest, a pro-human rights group, 
known as Charter 77, united with other groups to become the Civic 
Forum, a strong voice calling for reform, civil liberties, and rights 
for all citizens.

Led by dissent playwright Vaclav Havel, the Civic Forum succeeded in 
forcing the communist government to resign, paving the way for Havel's 
election on December 29 as the President of Czechoslovakia.

Known around the world as the Velvet Revolution, these historic 
events further cemented the collapse of the communist regimes 
throughout Central and Eastern Europe, and helped to precipitate the 
end of the Cold War.

In June 1990, Czechoslovakia held its first democratic election since 
1946, bringing into power its first completely noncommunist government 
in over 40 years. In the 20 years since these momentous events, the 
Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic have become strong, vibrant 
democracies, close NATO allies, and staunch friends of the United 
States.

They continue to contribute to international peace efforts, including 
by providing troops and assistance under NATO command in Afghanistan.

Millions of Americans trace their roots to these two great nations, 
and the United States is strengthened by their rich cultural heritage 
and their many significant achievements and contributions.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution acknowledges and commemorates the Velvet 
Revolution in Czechoslovakia 20 years ago this month. It also reaffirms 
the bonds of friendship and cooperation between the United States and 
the Czech Republic.

I urge all of our colleagues to support this important resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.