# IN HONOR OF SGT MARCO ROBLEDO
## `f8d06c67de0e7b6ce72b1af7c3885f1c`
`Mr. BOOZMAN — 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. BOOZMAN. Madam, Speaker, I rise today in honor of a great 
American hero, SGT Marco Robledo from the Third District of Arkansas.

Marco has selflessly served in the United States Army. The commitment 
he showed his fellow soldiers and his country is something we can all 
be proud of.

On May 26, 2007, Marco was injured in Iraq. He lost his left arm and 
his left leg, but he still has a strong spirit and he's made lasting 
impressions with me and with others who've had the opportunity to meet 
him.

In honor of his sacrifice Albert Casewell wrote the following poem:















 Re . . . Marco . . . Ble . . .











 A Tribute to An American Hero














 SGT Marco Robledo













 The United States Army











 1st platoon A.CO. 875th en bn












 Re . . . Marco . . . Ble . . .



 Re . . . Marco . . . Ble . . .


 While, cheating death . . . one of America's very Best . . .


 One of America's very finest . . . who he has her our nation 





 so blessed . . .



 A Hero who goes off to war . . .


 Upon, battlefields of honor . . . who but gives up his arm 





 and leg for us, would bore . . .


 All so Freedom can endure, while standing alone at death's 





 dark door . . .



 As he walked through The Valley of Death!


 Returning home, as there he lie right at the very edge . . .


 At the abyss, all the between life and death . . . with but 





 only his fine courage 





 left . . .



 And then!


 To rebuild, where non lies left . . . moment by moment, as he 





 would etch . . .


 As most thought that he was left for dead, but not him . . . 





 with his courage pledged . . .



 As Day in and out . . .


 While, all around him such pain and heartache was but his to 





 tout . . .


 As against all odds, his fine heart would shout . . .



 It's not my time . . .


 Some way I'll find, my way back . . . with but my heart and 





 soul, and mind . . .


 Just Amazing, in what his life is saying . . . Just Re . . . 





 Marco . . .Ble . . . a soul which shines!



 Such a young heart . . .


 And yet, such a strong soul and mind . . . who has already 





 lived two lifetimes of gold . . .


 As a Warrior and Hero first, then one of inspiration . . . 





 facing but the worst so bold . . .




Put upon this earth . . .


 To but show mankind's great true fine 





 worth . . .


 Our Lord's messenger to teach us, to reach us so deep down 





 inside so first!



 In our times and in our lives . . .


 What is it that we have so strived?


 That's so Re . . . Marco . . . Ble . . . that so defines . . 





 . as most have not lived such fine lives!
