---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 4137, COLLEGE OPPORTUNITY AND  AFFORDABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `f8d42e35beee2f0a8661e00f248bf97c`
`Mr. SOUDER — 7 February 2008`

---


Mr. SOUDER. I thank my distinguished friend from Washington State.

A little bit of irony here. I had an amendment that we fully debated 
in committee on students' free speech, and I wanted to offer it today. 
But isn't it ironic that while I was trying to argue for a student bill 
of rights and free speech, that we're not allowed to have free speech 
and a bill of rights in the United States Congress. How in the world, 
when we're having 27 amendments, and this amendment was overwhelmingly 
supported by our party, we only have, out of 27, four from Republicans, 
and two of those are Republican opposed. If we have time for 27 
amendments, why can't we have an amendment for free speech? I just 
don't understand.

I never understood the opposition to the amendment, but what an 
insult to the American people that when we want to debate whether there 
should be a student bill of rights on campuses, which is being adopted 
and introduced in many places around the country, that the United 
States Congress can't even debate on the House floor a free speech 
amendment and protection for speech in colleges. This is an outrage, an 
embarrassment, and a humiliation to the Rules Committee. Why 27 
amendments, but not one on a student bill of rights? Could it be that 
it's a difficult vote?

David Horowitz, and I will insert into the Record an article, ''In 
Defense of Intellectual Diversity,'' has been a champion of this 
problem. Now, we had a very interesting debate in committee. The 
chairman of the committee said that some of these students who have 
been complaining should grow up, and cited a case of where he 
struggled. And certainly when I was a college student in the late 
sixties and early seventies and wore a button ''I'm proud to be a 
square'' when most of America wasn't proud to be a square, I certainly 
had my share of debates, my share of harassment, my share of being 
yelled down, trying to offer a differing view than the view that was 
popular in the late sixties. And some of that goes with being on a 
college campus, but there are examples all over this country where 
intellectual diversity, intellectual alternatives are being stymied in 
academia. This amendment would try to protect those rights.

Some of it's from the far left; a lot of it is on the conservative 
side right now. In fact, next Tuesday Ben Stein has a movie coming out, 
''Expelled: No Intelligence Allowed,'' that will debut about one of 
those debates in science. Where there is an effort to stamp it out, 
particularly when you get into government, economics, sociology, 
philosophy, and so on, increasingly there is a rigidity; and if you 
disagree you are harassed, your grades can be altered, your papers can 
be given back to you, speeches and alternative speakers are shouted 
down. And, yes, there are nominal processes to do it, but if there are 
nominal processes to do it, what is wrong? This amendment says, for 
example, ''Individual colleges and universities have different missions 
and each institution should design its academic program in accordance. 
Within the context of institutional mission, the college should promote 
intellectual pluralism and facilitate free and open exchange of 
ideas.'' Well, that's not very controversial.

''D, Students should not be intimidated, harassed, discouraged from 
speaking out, discriminated against, or subject to official sanctions 
because of their personal, political, ideological or religious 
beliefs.'' Isn't that a terrible, risky, difficult vote?

''Students should be treated equally and fairly, including evaluation 
and grading, without regard to or consideration of their personal 
political views or ideological beliefs.'' That's just awful. How could 
we vote on that in the United States Congress to say there would be no 
persecution? There is no ''whereas'' clauses here. There's nothing in 
here that says campuses are liberal, campuses are conservative. We 
don't have any ''whereas'' clauses that are insulting in here. There is 
nothing in here that's partisan; I just read you the guts of the bill.

Why can't we vote on this? Why is this opposed? Why is it opposed so 
much that we're not even allowed to debate it on the floor of Congress? 
How can we say, in a higher education bill, that we believe in inquiry, 
that we believe in searching for knowledge, but when we had an 
amendment to protect students who might have a difference of opinion 
that we wouldn't even allow a vote?








 [From the Chronicle Review, Feb. 13, 2004]










In Defense of Intellectual Diversity














(By David Horowitz)




 I am the author of the Academic Bill of Rights, which many 


 student governments, colleges and universities, education 


 commissions, and legislatures are considering adopting. 


 Already, the U.S. House of Representatives has introduced a 


 version as legislation, and the Senate should soon follow 


 suit.



 State governments are also starting to rally around efforts 


 to protect student rights and intellectual diversity on 


 campuses: In Colorado, the State Senate president, John K. 


 Andrews Jr., has been very concerned about the issue, and 


 State Rep. Shawn Mitchell has just introduced legislation 


 requiring public institutions to create and publicize 


 processes for protecting students against political bias. 


 Lawmakers in four other states have also expressed a strong 


 interest in legislation of their own, based on some version 


 of the Academic Bill of Rights. Students for Academic Freedom 


 is working to secure the measure's adoption by student 


 governments and university administrations on 105 member 


 campuses across the country (http://
www.studentsforacademicfreedom
.org).



 The Academic Bill of Rights is based squarely on the almost 


 100-year-old tradition of academic freedom that the American 


 Association of University Professors has established. The 


 bill's purposes are to codify that tradition; to emphasize 


 the value of ''intellectual diversity,'' already implicit in 


 the concept of academic freedom; and, most important, to 


 enumerate the rights of students to not be indoctrinated or 


 otherwise assaulted by political propagandists in the 


 classroom or any educational setting.



 Although the AAUP has recognized student rights since its 


 inception, however, most campuses have rarely given them the 


 attention or support they deserve. In fact, it is safe to say 


 that no college or university now adequately defends them. 


 Especially recently, with the growing partisan activities of 


 some faculty members and the consequent politicization of 


 some aspects of the curriculum, that lack of support has 


 become one of the most pressing issues in the academy.



 Moreover, because I am a well-known conservative and have 


 published studies of political bias in the hiring of college 


 and university professors, critics have suggested that the 


 Academic Bill of Rights is really a ''right-wing plot'' to 


 stack faculties with political conservatives by imposing 


 hiring quotas. Indeed, opponents of legislation in Colorado 


 have exploited that fear, writing numerous op-ed pieces about 


 alleged right-wing plans to create affirmative-action 


 programs for conservative professors.



 Nothing could be further from the truth. The actual intent 


 of the Academic Bill of Rights is to remove partisan politics 


 from the classroom. The bill that I'm proposing explicitly 


 forbids political hiring or firing: ''No faculty shall be 


 hired or fired or denied promotion or tenure on the basis of 


 his or her political or religious beliefs.'' The bill thus 


 protects all faculty members--left-leaning critics of the war 


 in Iraq as well as right-leaning proponents of it, for 


 example--from being penalized for their political beliefs. 


 Academic liberals should be as eager to support that 


 principle as conservatives.



 Some liberal faculty members have expressed concern about a 


 phrase in the bill of rights that singles out the social 


 sciences and humanities and says hiring in those




 areas should be based on competence and expertise and with 


 a view toward ''fostering a plurality of methodologies and 


 perspectives.'' In fact, the view that there should be a 


 diversity of methodologies is already accepted practice. 


 Considering that truth is unsettled in these discipline 


 areas, why should there not be an attempt to nurture a 


 diversity of perspectives as well?



 Perhaps the concern is that ''fostering'' would be 


 equivalent to ''mandating.'' The Academic Bill of Rights 


 contains no intention, implicit or otherwise, to mandate or 


 produce an artificial ''balance'' of intellectual 


 perspectives. That would be impossible to achieve and would 


 create more mischief than it would remedy. On the other hand. 


 a lack of diversity is not all that difficult to detect or 


 correct.



 By adopting the Academic Bill of Rights, an institution 


 would recognize scholarship rather than ideology as an 


 appropriate academic enterprise. It would strengthen 


 educational values that have been eroded by the unwarranted 


 intrusion of faculty members' political views into the 


 classroom. That corrosive trend has caused some academics to 


 focus merely on their own partisan agendas and to abandon 


 their responsibilities as professional educators with 


 obligations to students of all political persuasions. Such 


 professors have lost sight of the vital distinction between 


 education and indoctrination, which--as the AAUP recognized 


 in its first report on academic freedom, in 1915--is not a 


 legitimate educational function.



 Because the intent of the Academic Bill of Rights is to 


 restore academic values, I deliberately submitted it in draft 


 form to potential critics who did not share my political 


 views. They included Stanley Fish, dean of the College of 


 Liberal Arts and Sciences at the University of Illinois at 


 Chicago; Michael Berube, a professor of English at 


 Pennsylvania State University at University Park; Todd 


 Gitlin, a professor of journalism and sociology at Columbia 


 University; and Philip Klinkner, a professor of government at 


 Hamilton College. While their responses differed, I tried to 


 accommodate the criticisms I got, for example deleting a 


 clause in the original that would have required the 


 deliberations of all committees in charge of hiring and 


 promotion to be recorded and made available to a ''duly 


 constituted authority.''



 I even lifted wholesale one of the bill's chief tenets--


 that colleges and professional academic associations should 


 remain institutionally neutral on controversial political 


 issues--from an article that Dean Fish wrote for The 


 Chronicle (''Save the World on Your Own Time,'' January 23, 


 2003). He has also written an admirable book, Professional 


 Correctness (Clarendon Press, 1995), which explores the 


 inherent conflict between ideological thinking and 


 scholarship.



 Since the Academic Bill of Rights is designed to clarify 


 and extend existing principles of academic freedom, its 


 opponents have generally been unable to identify specific 


 provisions that they find objectionable. Instead, they have 


 tried to distort the plain meaning of the text. The AAUP 


 itself has been part of that effort, suggesting in a formal 


 statement that the bill's intent is to introduce political 


 criteria for judging intellectual diversity and, thus, to 


 subvert scholarly standards. It contends that the bill of 


 rights ''proclaims that all opinions are equally valid,'' 


 which ''negates an essential function of university 


 education.'' The AAUP singles out for attack a phrase that 


 refers to ''the uncertainty and unsettled character of all 


 human knowledge'' as the rationale for respecting diverse 


 viewpoints in curricula and reading lists in the humanities 


 and social sciences. The AAUP claims that ''this premise . . 


 . is anti-thetical to the basic scholarly enterprise of the 


 university, which is to establish and transmit knowledge.''



 The association's statements are incomprehensible. After 


 all, major schools of thought in the contemporary academy--


 pragmatism, postmodernism, and deconstructionism, to name 


 three--operate on the premise that knowledge is uncertain 


 and, at times, relative. Even the hard sciences, which do not 


 share such relativistic assumptions, are inspired to continue 


 their research efforts by the incomplete state of received 


 knowledge. The university's mission is not only to 


 transmit knowledge but to pursue it--and from all vantage 


 points. What could be controversial about acknowledging 


 that? Further, the AAUP's contention that the Academic 


 Bill of Rights threatens true academic standards by 


 suggesting that all opinions are equally valid is a red 


 herring, as the bill's statement on intellectual diversity 


 makes clear: ''Exposing students to the spectrum of 


 significant scholarly viewpoints on the subjects examined 


 in their courses is a major responsibility of faculty.'' 


 (Emphasis added.)



 As the Academic Bill of Rights states, ''Academic 


 disciplines should welcome a diversity of approaches to 


 unsettled questions.'' That is common sense. Why not make it 


 university policy?



 The only serious opposition to the Academic Bill of Rights 


 is raised by those who claim that, although its principles 


 are valid, it duplicates academic-freedom guidelines that 


 already exist. Elizabeth Hoffman, president of the University 


 of Colorado System, for example, has personally told me that 


 she takes that position.



 But with all due respect, such critics are also mistaken. 


 Most universities' academic-freedom policies generally fail 


 to make explicit, let alone codify, the institutions' 


 commitment to intellectual diversity or the academic rights 


 of students. The institutions also do not make their policies 


 readily available to students--who, therefore, are generally 


 not even aware that such policies exist.



 For example, when I met with Elizabeth Hoffman, she 


 directed me to the University of Colorado's Web site, where 


 its academic-freedom guidelines are posted. Even if those 


 guidelines were adequate, posting them on an Internet site 


 does not provide sufficient protection for students, who are 


 unlikely to visit it. Contrast the way that institutions 


 aggressively promote other types of diversity guidelines--


 often establishing special offices to organize and enforce 


 all sorts of special diversity-related programs--to such a 


 passive approach to intellectual diversity.



 At Colorado's Web site, for example, one can read the 


 following: ''Sections of the AAUP's 1940 Statement of 


 Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure have been adopted 


 as a statement of policy by the Board of Regents.'' Few 


 people reading that article or visiting the site would 


 suspect that the following protection for students is 


 contained in the AAUP's 1940 statement: ''Teachers are 


 entitled to freedom in the classroom in discussing their 


 subject, but they should be careful not to introduce into 


 their teaching controversial matter which has no relation to 


 their subject.''



 Is there a college or university in America--including the 


 University of Colorado--where at least one professor has not 


 introduced controversial matter on the war in Iraq or the 


 Bush White House in a class whose subject matter is not the 


 war in Iraq, or international relations, or presidential 


 administrations? Yet intrusion of such subject matter, in 


 which the professor has no academic expertise, is a breach of 


 professional responsibility and a violation of a student's 


 academic rights.



 We do not go to our doctors' offices and expect to see 


 partisan propaganda posted on the doors, or go to hospital 


 operating rooms and expect to hear political lectures from 


 our surgeons. The same should be true of our classrooms and 


 professors, yet it is not. When I visited the political-


 science department at the University of Colorado at Denver 


 this year, the office doors and bulletin boards were 


 plastered with cartoons and statements ridiculing 


 Republicans, and only Republicans. When I asked President 


 Hoffman about that, she assured me that she would request 


 that such partisan materials be removed and an appropriate 


 educational environment restored. To the best of my 


 knowledge, that has yet to happen.



 Not everyone would agree about the need for such restraint, 


 and it should be said that the Academic Bill of Rights makes 


 no mention of postings and cartoons--although that does not 


 mean that they are appropriate. I refer to them only to 


 illustrate the problem that exists in the academic culture 


 when it comes to fulfilling professional obligations that 


 professors owe to all students. I would ask liberal 


 professors who are comfortable with such partisan 


 expressions how they would have felt as students seeking 


 guidance from their own professors if they had to walk a 


 gantlet of cartoons portraying Bill Clinton as a lecher, 


 or attacking antiwar protesters as traitors.



 The politicized culture of the university is the heart of 


 the problem. At Duke University this year, a history 


 professor welcomed his class with the warning that he had 


 strong ''liberal'' opinions, and that Republican students 


 should probably drop his course. One student did. Aided by 


 Duke Students for Academic Freedom, the young man then 


 complained. To his credit, the professor apologized. Although 


 some people on the campus said the professor had been joking, 


 the student clearly felt he faced a hostile environment. Why 


 should the professor have thought that partisanship in the 


 classroom was professionally acceptable in the first place?



 At the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, a 


 required summer-reading program for entering freshmen stirred 


 a controversy in the state legislature last fall. The 


 required text was Barbara Ehrenreich's socialist tract on 


 poverty in America, Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in 


 America (Metropolitan Books, 2001). Other universities have 


 required the identical text in similar programs, and several 


 have invited Ehrenreich to campus to present her views under 


 the imprimatur of the institution and without rebuttal.



 That reflects an academic culture unhinged. When a 


 university requires a single partisan text of all its 


 students, it is a form of indoctrination, entirely 


 inappropriate for an academic institution. If many 


 universities had required Dinesh D'Souza's Illiberal 


 Education: The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus (Vintage 


 Books, 1992) or Ann Coulter's Treason: Liberal Treachery From 


 the Cold War to the War on Terrorism (Crown Forum, 2003) as 


 their lone freshman-reading text, there would have been a 


 collective howl from liberal faculties, who would have 


 immediately recognized the inappropriateness of such 


 institutional endorsement of controversial views. Why not 


 require two texts, or four? (My stepson, who is a high-school 


 senior, was required to read seven texts during his summer 


 vacation.)



 The remedy is so simple. Requiring readings on more than 


 one side of a political controversy would be appropriate 


 educational policy and would strengthen, not weaken, the 


 democracy that supports our educational




 system. Why is that not obvious to the administrators at 


 Chapel Hill and the other universities that have instituted 


 such required-reading programs? It's the academic culture, 


 stupid.
