---
---

# HONORING THE CAREER AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF NEIL NOLF
## `f8d96cd1de7d263d00967125637f0191`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 19 December 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the exemplary 
career of Mr. Neil Nolf, a talented public servant and good friend, who 
is retiring at the end of the year after decades of public service at 
the Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station. Since assuming his post as 
Public Affairs Officer in 1987, I have had the privilege of working 
with Mr. Nolf on many issues of critical importance to the residents of 
the 28th Congressional District of New York, especially those that 
involved improving the lives of the dedicated service men and women at 
the Air Base. His was a life dedicated to public service and his vision 
and leadership will be sorely missed.

Neil Nolf's life has been driven by a deep/rooted sense of commitment 
to his community and service to his country. Born and raised in western 
New York, Mr. Nolf graduated from Buffalo State College in 1975 and 
began work at the Social Security Administration in Buffalo. Mr. Nolf 
then left his home in western New York to begin work for the FBI in 
Washington, DC. From there, he fortunately returned to western New York 
to begin a very successful career at the Niagara Falls Air Reserve 
Station. While working full time, Mr. Nolf enlisted as a reservist with 
the 914th Airlift Wing in 1979, discovering and honing the unique 
leadership skills that have come to define his lifetime of service.

Never content with settling for the status quo, as Public Affairs 
Officer, Mr. Nolf has been responsible for transforming the Air Reserve 
Station into the efficient facility that it is today. Overseeing the 
construction of a new training facility, an officers and airmen 
quarters, a military entrance processing site, and a much needed runway 
extension, he was able to the ensure that the 914th Airlift Wing had 
the critical equipment and facilities required to be one of the most 
successful units in the country. His leadership has also been 
significantly tested in recent years, with the 914th Airlift Wing being 
the most deployed reserve unit in the Nation since the beginning of the 
Iraq War in 2004.

The Air Base, its surrounding communities, and indeed the Nation as a 
whole, owe a debt of gratitude to Mr. Nolf. His legacy will live on at 
the Air Base, and I look forward to seeing the Air Base continue to 
grow and flourish, adding much to the security and the economic 
viability of our Nation. I am honored today to have the opportunity to 
pay tribute to his service, and I wish Neil the best as he embarks on 
the next chapter of his storied life.
