# TRIBUTE TO FRANCIS HARVEY
## `f8dcc91e94931f5152810312efcda909`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 12 April 2007`

---

 Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, today I wish to speak about a 
recent change in the top leadership in our Army. Dr. Francis Harvey 
departed as Secretary of the Army at a ceremony at Fort Myer, VA. 
Farewell ceremonies are often held at Fort Myer for soldiers of all 
ranks as they pass the torch to those men and women who will take over 
the responsibility of defending our Nation. The ceremony at Fort Myer 
honors their contributions and symbolizes the continuity between the 
past and the future. Secretary of the Army Harvey's service as 
Secretary of the Army was during a particularly crucial time for the 
Army. The Nation is at war against a dangerous and determined enemy. 
That war is of long duration, and the Army has borne the brunt of the 
fighting. The nature of this war, and the demands it has made on the 
Army, has resulted in great challenges for the senior leadership of the 
Army. Secretary Harvey accepted those challenges and worked with skill, 
determination, and honor to overcome them and keep our Army strong and 
ready today and to prepare it for tomorrow. Many of us in Congress know 
of and appreciated Secretary Harvey's commitment to the Army. But the 
person who is best able to tell of his accomplishments and his 
contribution to the Army is his close partner, the Chief of Staff of 
the Army. I am pleased to commend to my colleagues GEN Peter 
Schoomaker's speech thanking Secretary Harvey for his service to the 
Army. I bid Secretary Harvey farewell, thank him for his service to our 
country, and wish him all the best in the next chapter of his life.

The material follows.












Speech by General Schoomaker




 Secretary and Mrs. Harvey, Deputy Secretary England, 


 Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, General Pace . . . Sergeant 


 Major of the Army Preston, other distinguished guests and 


 friends. Today Dr. Fran Harvey, our 19th Secretary of the 


 Army, departs our ranks but not our hearts. I am grateful to 


 have had the privilege and honor to serve by his side. When 


 Secretary Harvey was sworn-in back in November 2004 I 


 provided him a photo of a Soldier on bended knee in Iraq 


 carrying an almost unbearable load.



 I explained to Secretary Harvey that this picture should 


 serve to remind him--that like all leaders across our Army--


 everything he does will impact our Soldiers on the ground. 


 Our challenge, therefore, was to lighten the load our 


 Soldiers bear (in other words, to ''take things out of their 


 rucksacks,'' as we like to say).



 While he has kept it on his desk for two years let me tell 


 you in no uncertain terms Secretary Harvey needed no such 


 reminder. He was quick to state, and truly believed, that 


 ''Soldiers are and will always be our centerpiece. Their 


 efforts are the reason the Army is one of the most respected 


 organizations in America.''



 This conviction was evident in everything I saw him do as 


 our Secretary. Everything was based on his passionate concern 


 for the Army, its Soldiers, their families, and our Army 


 Civilians.



 This concern is reflected in the other picture on his desk, 


 one of two ladies, the mothers of two fallen Soldiers. That 


 picture serves as a reminder of the sacrifices our Soldiers 


 and their families are making. His dedication was reflected 


 in his personal and professional commitment to ''provide a 


 quality of life for our Soldiers that matched the quality of 


 service they provide to the Nation.''



 And he has worked tirelessly to do just that. Because of 


 his vision, his dedication, and his unfailing commitment he 


 departs our ranks today knowing with absolute certainty that 


 our Soldiers and their families as well as the Army Civilians 


 who support them have benefited greatly from his service. I 


 have no doubt that our Army is far better today than we were 


 just two years ago



 Our progress in many cases is the direct result of his 


 determination to stand-up to those who challenged the basis 


 of our requirements to properly support our Soldiers.



 He also inspired us to think differently and far more 


 strategically about how we ''do business.'' Without doubt 


 these qualities are a testament to the unique brand of 


 values-based, principle-centered leadership he demonstrated 


 with absolute conviction in his service as Secretary of the 


 Army.



 In short his impact on our Army has been profound. He has 


 moved us significantly forward in our collective and 


 continuing efforts to meet the needs of the Nation that we 


 serve.



 My remarks will be brief because you came to hear Secretary 


 Harvey, not me. We've convened today to honor him and his 


 family and bear witness to the sacrifice of our Soldiers and 


 the contributions our Army is making worldwide in defense of 


 the Nation.



 We often overlook the fact that to perform his duties as 


 our Secretary . . . he has endured his own experience in 


 ''family separation'' by being apart from Mary his gracious




 wife of over forty years for more than twenty-eight months. 


 While we could spend the remainder of today highlighting 


 Secretary Harvey's achievements neither he nor you would be 


 very appreciative of ''the mother of all laundry lists.'' So 


 I will briefly highlight three broad but interrelated 


 touchstones: People, Resources, and Teamwork.



 Dr. Harvey's commitment to people has enabled us to sustain 


 the overall health and viability of our All-Volunteer force--


 which is now being tested for the first time in a protracted 


 conflict. His actions have enabled us to achieve 


 unprecedented levels of both recruitment and retention. 


 ''People are the Army'' and we recruit more of them each year 


 than all of the other Services combined. In Fiscal Year 2006 


 the Active component had its best year in nine years 


 recruiting over 80,000 men and women. The National Guard had 


 its best year in thirteen years recruiting over 69,000 


 people; finally, the Reserves achieved over a 25 percent 


 increase from the previous year bringing in 25,000 new 


 people.



 His accomplishments on behalf of the great people in our 


 organization have been a logical continuation of his 


 voluntary service to the Army as a key member of the Army 


 Science Board while a private citizen over many years.



 They include: Improvements which enabled us to meet our 


 goals for recruiting and retaining our All Volunteer force; 


 decisions and support to provide for better access and better 


 management of our vital National Guard and Army Reserve units 


 not as individuals but instead as whole cohesive units fully 


 prepared and ready to perform their duties amidst new 


 challenges; and decisions and support to grow our force--in a 


 extraordinary way--to better meet our needs and to alleviate, 


 over time, current levels of stress on our Soldiers and their 


 families.



 We now have dramatic enhancements to ''push the envelope'' 


 increasing our ability to protect the force. These include 


 considerable improvements affecting all elements of the 


 Department to improve leadership, training, education, and 


 career opportunities for our civilians and our civilian 


 executives and equally impressive improvements in finding 


 ways--to change our culture--to drive out waste and 


 improve both efficiency and effectiveness. In this regard 


 he thought and acted unequivocally like a Soldier.



 He was driven by a single unifying purpose: to free human 


 and financial resources for more compelling wartime and 


 operational needs. Properly focusing activity and obtaining 


 resources to enable that activity are core tasks for senior 


 leaders. No one that I have served with in public or private 


 life does it better than Dr. Fran Harvey. Our budgeted 


 dollars for Fiscal 2008, due to his personal efforts, are the 


 highest in our history--which exemplify his leadership in 


 this regard. Working in full collaboration with me and all of 


 ''the right people'' he quickly established a strategic 


 framework that reflected our most urgent challenges and 


 ongoing initiatives. He then set out in a determined yet 


 pragmatic fashion to obtain the resources required to support 


 our Army to ensure it was fully prepared to serve at the 


 forefront of the war on terror and to execute the full range 


 of its other worldwide missions.



 Creating relevant, ready forces is the surest measure of 


 effective Army leadership. Since 2004 sixty-four (64) Brigade 


 Combat Teams have been converted or are in the process of 


 being converted; 148 multifunctional and functional support 


 Brigades have been converted, or are in the process of being 


 converted, to the modular design force.



 I won't dwell on numbers. While important they do little to 


 tell this story. I will highlight instead the personal 


 courage and integrity he demonstrated in challenging the 


 bureaucracy, changing perceptions, and setting us on a path 


 to get our resources and our requirements in balance. His 


 leadership proved to be decisive in this regard. Not only did 


 he establish a methodology (demonstrating why he has been so 


 successful in ''Corporate America'') to explain why our costs 


 have increased in recent years, he also promoted 


 understanding and acceptance at the highest levels of our 


 Government for our most compelling needs. We will rely upon 


 Fran Harvey's example ''to do what is right'' for many years 


 to come.



 He also inspired all of us in the Army to achieve more--in 


 what we do personally . . . and in what we expect to be 


 delivered by others. In this regard . . . two of his deep 


 seated beliefs will remain embedded in the culture which 


 shapes and characterizes our Army: ''In the bottom line it's 


 all about 'cost, schedule, and performance' plain and simple 


 and what gets measured gets done.''



 His efforts have dramatically improved the quality and 


 openness of our working relationships within the Department 


 of Defense and with the many stakeholders upon whom we depend 


 for resources and support. In a word, he is a genuine ''team 


 player'' who has engendered unprecedented levels of teamwork 


 which will benefit our Soldiers. Our personal working 


 relationship is the result of our mutual decision to operate 


 from the same playbook. And that playbook was based on a 


 couple of key fundamentals. We agreed that the door between 


 our offices would always remain open and that our 


 relationship would be based upon one core belief--that 


 Soldiers would remain the center of all that we do.



 Over the past two years we've crossed that threshold that 


 used to be blocked many times a day. Opening the door between 


 our offices not only opened lines of communication, it also 


 enabled progress in three other very important ways: First, 


 as an outgrowth of the extremely close partnership between 


 Secretary Harvey and me we set the tone for a strong civil-


 military team at the top of the Department. Second, we were 


 unified in our commitment to a single Vision--the Army 


 Vision--that centers, as it must, on the great Soldiers who 


 fill our ranks and the dedicated Army Civilians who support 


 them to generate and sustain our All-Volunteer force. Third, 


 teamwork and a shared vision for the future enabled our 


 entire team to better articulate and defend the Army's most 


 compelling needs.



 I'm convinced that these positive developments played a 


 vital role in dramatically changing our current and projected 


 resource posture and ultimately to better provide for our 


 Soldiers and to better accomplish what the Nation demands 


 from its Army. So as we farewell our 19th Secretary I say so 


 long to a visionary, a ''true leader'' and a teammate with 


 whom I have been enormously proud to serve. He has led the 


 Army to unprecedented levels of civil-military cooperation, 


 fostered open communication, and mutual respect (even in 


 times of disagreement) all in the interest of Soldiers, 


 families, and the Army mission--to conduct prompt, sustained 


 combat and stability operations on land. I have mentioned 


 just a few of the seminal achievements that will endure and 


 continue to bear fruit long after Dr. Harvey departs our 


 ranks today. Selfless leadership is that rare and wonderful 


 commodity of which every nation possesses too little. Its 


 presence is unmistakable, its impact enduring.



 We are fortunate to have the continuity of vision and 


 direction that Acting Secretary Geren now represents. Sir, we 


 welcome your leadership and your experience as a Member of 


 Congress and within the office of the Secretary of Defense. 


 We know that you'll lead and care for our Soldiers and 


 families and that you're going to keep us on course.



 Secretary Harvey, Sir, thank you for your service for your 


 friendship and for living the Army Values and for honoring 


 our Warrior Ethos. Because of your leadership we're ''Army 


 Strong'' and as our song says we'll ''keep rolling along.'' 


 Together we wish you, Mary, Francis, John and the rest of 


 your family Godspeed.



 Army Strong!
