---
---

# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST
## `f8e16c1816c2b8f6f0538e172f9f220e`
`Mr. REID — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, I also have had the opportunity to go to 
Iraq as many times as my friend from Arizona, and I also speak to the 
troops and the people at the Pentagon. I have to respectfully suggest 
to my friend that there are many individuals whom I have spoken to who 
really like what we have suggested--we, the Democrats--that there be a 
redeployment of troops.

Does that mean they all pull out of Iraq and leave immediately? Of 
course, it doesn't. But redeploy the troops. Redeploy the troops. 
Redeploy them to do what? Counterterrorism, force protection, and 
training the Iraqis. And my contacts in the military say they think our 
proposal is pretty good. We were on this proposal before the Iraq Study 
Group, but they adopted it, and I hope they got it from us, and that is 
that there should be a regional conference, including Saudi Arabia, 
Egypt, Jordan, Syria, and, yes, Iran. This is a regional problem. This 
war will not be handled and dealt with and taken care of militarily. It 
can only be done diplomatically.

We are a wonderful fighting force, and we will continue to be, but 
where we have lost our edge is diplomatically. We have not done well at 
all in that regard, and the people I have talked to in the military 
support what we are trying to do: redeployment; they support a regional 
conference; they support, of course, recognizing that this must be 
handled politically. There has to be some meaningful reconstruction 
that goes forward--producing less oil now than before the war, less 
potable water, and less electricity. These are the things which have to 
be changed, and the people I talk to in the military think we are 
headed in the right direction.


They also think we are headed in the right direction when we speak 
out on the state of deterioration of our military. This war has taken a 
toll on our equipment--not on our troops alone, on our equipment. It is 
going to cost $75 billion to bring the military up to the situation 
they were in prior to this war. They are grateful we are fighting for 
them in that regard.

So, Madam President, I respect--and I don't have the military 
background of my friend from Arizona, but I have contacts in the 
military, and I think a lot of those people are more willing to talk to 
me than someone who is running for President and someone who is more 
noteworthy than I am. He is better known in the military, and they know 
he can respond to them probably better than I. So they are willing to 
tell me a lot of things they wouldn't tell someone as significant as 
John McCain.

So, Madam President, I think the Democratic plan we have enunciated 
is pretty good, much of which we have enunciated for a long time and 
has been picked up by the Iraq Study Group.