# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `f8e80145b25a099601d2907de33b5929`
`Mr. MARKEY — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution.

It is long past time that the disaster in Iraq is brought to an end.

The President's failed policy in Iraq has been repudiated by the 
bipartisan Iraq Study Group, his inability to extricate the United 
States from a quagmire in the desert has been rejected by the voters, 
and we must change course. The President has proven himself to be 
either blind to the reality on the ground in Iraq or simply uncaring of 
what that reality means for the stability of the Middle East and the 
security of the United States of America.

The President took this country to war on false premises. There were 
no weapons of mass destruction, there was no imminent threat, there 
were no operational ties to al-Qaeda. And the administration knew, 
because we had U.N. weapons inspectors on the ground in Iraq for months 
before the invasion, that the so-called ''intelligence'' pointing to an 
active and dangerous Iraqi WMD program was simply wrong. Over and over 
again, Hans Blix and his teams of inspectors would launch surprise 
visits on sites that the CIA had pointed them to, and over and over 
again the U.S. intelligence would be proved incorrect.

We have been fighting in Iraq longer than we fought in the Second 
WorId War. Within a few months, we will have spent more money in Iraq 
than we did in the more than 10 years we were in Vietnam. And while a 
very small segment of our citizenry is being asked to make the ultimate 
sacrifice for this adventure by sending their loved ones to war, the 
Bush administration has given billions of dollars in tax breaks to the 
richest Americans. If this war were truly a national struggle, 
underpinned by the faith and support of the public, the sacrifices 
would be shared by all instead of borne by the few.

Since President Bush infamously declared ''Mission Accomplished'' 
over 4 years ago, the situation has only gotten worse and worse. The 
administration never had a plan to win the peace, and still does not, 
and as a result the peace cannot be won. Our brave men and women in 
uniform are caught in the midst of a multifaceted civil war which can 
only be brought to an end with political reconciliation, not military 
engagement.

Unfortunately, the President stubbornly refuses to understand the 
nature of the conflict into which he has dragged us. He refuses to 
change course, but more of the same cannot any longer be an option. We 
must extricate ourselves from a sectarian civil war which is bleeding 
our military every single day. This bill will begin the responsible 
redeployment of US forces out of Iraq within 120 days, and complete 
that deployment by April 1, 2008. On that date, we will have been in 
Iraq for more than 5 years.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Chairman Skelton for bringing this resolution 
before us and I urge its adoption.