# EXPRESSING SENSE OF THE HOUSE REGARDING SEPTEMBER 11, 2001
## `f8ec9908eb9d0235bc394e34df637551`
`Mr. BERMAN â€” 9 September 2009`

---


Mr. BERMAN. I rise in strong support of this resolution, and I yield 
myself as much time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution pays homage to the lives lost on 
September 11, 2001, and recognizes the anniversary as not only a time 
of solemn commemoration but also as a demonstration of America's great 
resolve in combating terrorism. It extends our enduring and deeper 
condolences to the friends, families and loved ones of the innocent 
victims, and recognizes the heroism of U.S. service men and women who 
defend our country today. It honors the Nation's first responders and 
others whose valiant efforts were a credit to their country on that 
horrible day, and it honors them as they continue to help keep us safe.



It expresses gratitude to the leaders and citizens of other countries 
who assisted, supported, and stood by the United States in the 
aftermath of the attack.

In America's modern and fragmented society, collective memories are 
few. But each of us remembers where we were on 9/11 when we heard the 
news. We remember the days of unity that followed when we acted 
together to protect this country from those who were determined to 
bring us to our knees. We remember the efforts that Congress, the 
executive branch, and


the American people have made since then to protect our Nation from a 
real and ongoing threat. And even though 8 years have passed, we must 
remember that al Qaeda, while under pressure everywhere, remains a 
serious threat to the United States.

The very al Qaeda leadership responsible for ordering the attacks on 
September 11 continues to rally those who would do us harm and, along 
with its Taliban allies, seeks to defeat our troops in Afghanistan.

This is a time when we must transcend partisan politics and stand 
together to recall a moment when terrorists targeted the very symbols 
of American strength. Our values and our very foundation were under 
attack, and yet we persevered, and we will carry on the fight against 
extremists who seek to do us harm.

In this battle, the global realities of the 21st century require that 
we use not only our military but all of the tools available to us: 
economic, financial, diplomatic, and cultural resources to promote a 
better alternative to extremism and to protect our national security.

Mr. Speaker, none of us will forget what happened 8 years ago. We 
will always remember the victims of 9/11 and the loved ones who 
survived them. We will always honor the first responders who lost their 
lives that day and those in uniform at home and abroad who risk their 
lives today and every day to defend America.

We will continue to promote our founding principles of freedom and 
equality and ensure that the lives lost in pursuit of our ideals are 
never forgotten.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.