---
---

# EURIPIDES RUBIO DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OUTPATIENT CLINIC.
## `f8ec5180bd0af22db153662520405dd2`
`Mr. FORTUNO — 24 June 2008`

---


Mr. FORTUNO. Mr. Speaker, it is with great pride that I submit this 
statement for the record in support of H.R. 4289, which will name the 
Veterans' Affairs Outpatient Clinic in Ponce, Puerto Rico after Captain 
Euripides Rubio. Captain Rubio was an officer in the United States Army 
who fought and, at age 28, died in combat in the jungles of South 
Vietnam. For the actions that led to his death, Captain Rubio was 
posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor, one of four residents of 
Puerto Rico to have earned this supreme honor. By naming the veterans' 
clinic after Captain Rubio, Congress pays tribute to his courage and, 
by extension, honors the hundreds of thousands of sons and daughters of 
Puerto Rico who have served in the armed forces of this great Nation. I 
thank the Congress, and particularly the Veterans' Affairs Committee, 
for helping to preserve the memory of an extraordinary American.

It is fitting that Ponce, where Captain Rubio was born in 1938, is 
known as ''the City of Lions.'' Captain Rubio truly had the qualities 
of a lion--strength, courage, and fidelity. Those who served alongside 
him in the 1st Battalion, 28th Infantry remember him as an 
inspirational leader and as a model soldier completely committed to his 
country and to his comrades.

It is impossible to read Captain Rubio's Medal of Honor citation 
without shaking one's head and wondering how the world produces men of 
such caliber. On the day of his death--November 8, 1966--enemy forces 
launched an attack against the battalion's defensive position in the 
Tay Ninh province. Machine gun fire, mortar rounds and rifle-launched 
grenades exploded within the defense perimeter. Captain Rubio chose to 
leave the relative safety of his post and ''braved the withering fire 
to go to the area of most intense action where he distributed 
ammunition, re-established positions and rendered aid to the wounded.'' 
In the process, Captain Rubio was wounded twice.

Moments later, when a rifle company commander was medically 
evacuated, Captain Rubio assumed command. He received a third wound as 
he ''selflessly exposed himself to the devastating enemy fire to move 
among his men to encourage them to fight with renewed effort.''

While helping to evacuate wounded comrades, Captain Rubio observed 
that a smoke grenade, intended to mark the Viet Cong position for U.S. 
air strikes, had fallen perilously close to friendly lines. Captain 
Rubio ran to reposition the grenade but was immediately brought to his 
knees by enemy fire. Despite his many wounds, Captain Rubio picked up 
the grenade, ran through the deadly hail of fire to within 20 meters of 
the enemy position, and threw the grenade into the midst of the enemy 
before he fell for the final time. Because of Captain Rubio's actions, 
U.S. aircraft were able to identify and destroy the hostile positions.

The Medal of Honor citation ends with these simple and powerful 
words: ''Captain Rubio's singularly heroic act turned the tide of 
battle, and his extraordinary leadership and valor were a magnificent 
inspiration to his men. His remarkable bravery and selfless concern for 
his men are in keeping with the highest traditions of the military 
service and reflect great credit on Captain Rubio and the U.S. Army.''

There are many important ways in which this Congress and this country 
can honor our Nation's warriors. We can--and should--work to ensure 
they have the proper equipment they need to fight. We can--and should--
work to ensure that their families are taken care of during long 
deployments. We can--and should--work to ensure that, having left the 
service, our veterans receive the best educational opportunities and 
medical care available. Simply put, we should fight and sacrifice on 
behalf of those who have fought and sacrificed for us.

There is something else we can do, too. Something we as a country do 
not do enough of. And that is to publicly honor the most remarkable 
instances of bravery on the battlefield displayed by our men and women 
in uniform. In the last two years, six Americans have won the Medal of 
Honor for their actions in Afghanistan and Iraq. And yet one must 
struggle--often in vain--to find stories in the mainstream press about 
these present-day Euripides Rubios. Had they lived, these heroes would 
likely have been reluctant to talk about themselves. Such is the nature 
of soldiers. It is our obligation--and it should be our privilege--to 
publicly honor their achievements. And H.R. 4289 does precisely that.

Thanks to Congress's actions today, I know that many children in 
Puerto Rico, looking upon the clinic that bears his name, will ask 
their parents or grandparents who Euripides Rubio was. It is my fervent 
hope that, from the answer given, they will learn about this Lion of 
Ponce, who died far too young, but whose short life was filled with 
greatness.