---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `f8f37c80826b29d956a6e27366db5c15`
`Mr. BLUNT — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. BLUNT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this 
resolution. General Petraeus said a resolution like this would 
discourage the troops. The Secretary of Defense said a resolution like 
this would embolden the enemy. This Congress should be doing neither of 
those things.

What this resolution will not do is take a position on what we should 
do as we face the challenge of our generation.

President Johnson was criticized a generation ago and still today for 
choosing bombing sites in Vietnam. He was the Commander in Chief; yet 
he should have left those tactical choices to the military.

But his actions made imminently more sense than this. It is hard to 
imagine a group less capable of making tactical decisions about 
specific troop deployments than 535 Members of Congress.

The resolution today is about the exact number of troops. Will the 
one tomorrow or next week be a vote on which block in Baghdad to target 
or which car to stop?

And, of course, today what we debate is a tactic in the greater fight 
we are in. The new commanding general determined this surge is the 
right course of action. The Iraq Study Group was supportive of ''a 
short-term redeployment or surge of American combat forces to stabilize 
Baghdad or to speed up the training and equipping mission, if the U.S. 
commander in Iraq determines that such a step would be effective.''

Mr. Speaker, we can all agree that the current situation in Iraq 
cannot continue. That is why the President has advanced a new way 
forward.

Actions do have consequences, and this resolution the Democrats 
advance today is a vote for the status quo. It is a vote for the 
current strategy because it is a vote not to change that strategy. The 
current strategy is not working, and as a southwest Missourian told me 
yesterday, We are there. He went on to say, It really doesn't matter 
how we got there or what we thought. We are in a fight that won't stop 
if we leave.

The fact of the matter is that Congress does have the power to end 
the war if it has the political will to do so.

Almost 24 years ago, in November of 1983, the Congress voted to 
withdraw from Lebanon by March of 1984. Many of the proponents of this 
resolution voted then, who were Members of Congress then, voted to 
leave. They lost 153-274, but the message was sent, and we left anyway, 
and when we left, the myth of American weakness began to take hold in 
al Qaeda.

The language of this nonbinding resolution does not tackle the tough 
issues of war. It tries to have it both ways: disapproving the tactics 
but supporting the troops. It does not say we will fund the troops in 
the future or not fund the troops. It does not say we will supply the 
troops in the future or not supply the troops. This resolution just 
says enough not to say anything at all.

America should see this move for what it really is, a political first 
step to cutting off funding to the dangerous mission our troops face.

The truth is, we are in a war against a hostile and ferocious enemy 
that will stop at nothing. Imagine how this debate this week bolsters 
those radical terrorists whose sole goal is to destroy America because 
we disprove, as no society ever has, the dogma of religious 
totalitarianism that they use every day to recruit followers and 
funders and suicide bombers.

Our diversity, our ability to live together, and the prosperity and 
vitality that are the result have produced the enemies we face today. 
As long as we live as we do, they must be wrong.

This week, the Congress will send the signal to those enemies and to 
those who fight to protect us from them that America has the will and 
indeed the courage to continue fighting these Islamic totalitarians or 
that we do not take the consequences of failure seriously