# JAMES ZADROGA 9/11 HEALTH AND COMPENSATION ACT OF 2010
## `f8f4fc484a9df54c3c598db768799af5`
`Mr. ACKERMAN — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in the strongest possible 
support of the 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, H.R. 847.

Mr. Speaker, we are here again on the floor of the House to consider 
doing the decent thing: helping the living victims of the 9/11 who 
continue to suffer the terrible effects of that day. For too long, the 
federal government has not stepped-up enough to help the responders, 
volunteers, workers and residents that went to Ground Zero during and 
after the horrific 9/11 attack. For too long, this Congress has not 
acted to help these victims on a permanent basis. Tragically, some of 
the very people that we want to help with this legislation have already 
died. Thousands of Americans who responded need medical treatment now. 
Thousands more will need treatment in the future. Nine years is too 
long: we must show the American people today that their representatives 
can put away their differences and work together to pass this bill. The 
sick and injured don't care about offsets and they don't care about 
election-year politics.

The horrific attack of 9/11 wasn't just an attack on New York City; 
it was an attack upon the entire United States. The brave men and women 
in uniform who risk their lives every day in Afghanistan and elsewhere 
aren't defending just New York City, they're defending America. 
Responders came to Ground Zero in the thousands from all around the 
country, from almost every Congressional District. Over 13,000 
responders to Ground Zero are sick now and already are receiving 
medical treatment. Another 53,000 responders are currently being 
medically monitored and 71,000 individuals are enrolled in the World 
Trade Center Registry, meaning they were exposed to toxins at some 
point. In the coming years, these numbers will only increase as 
symptoms and conditions related to exposure to Ground Zero begin to 
manifest themselves in the victims. This measure would monitor and 
provide treatment to responders to Ground Zero and build on the 
existing monitoring and treatment programs. There's also an economic 
component to this bill. Victims would be able to be compensated for 
their economic losses and contractors would receive liability 
protection. We must pass this bill not only because it's the right 
thing to do for those people who are sick, but for the next generation 
of responders who will have to think twice about volunteering and 
working at a the site of a terrorist attack.

So, Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support the 9/11 Health 
and Compensation Act so that all the victims of 9/11 will receive the 
medical care and help they need and deserve.