---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f8f41cb96d7e049ec3c9b4422df958ce`
`Ms. LEE — 29 March 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Madam Chairman, first, I would like to thank my friend and 
colleague, our co-Chair of the Progressive Caucus, Congresswoman 
Woolsey, for her leadership on this issue and so many issues that 
relate to peace and security.

Also to our executive director, Mr. Goold, for all of your hard work 
and all of our staff. You all have done a phenomenal job in putting 
this together.

As I said with regard to the Congressional Black Caucus budget, a 
budget is a moral document. It defines what we as a community, as a 
Nation, as a society hold as sacred. That is why I am pleased that this 
Progressive Caucus budget also is a reflection of our values and our 
priorities.

There are several key elements in this budget I would like to focus 
on, especially five main items.

First, this budget will save up to $623 billion over the next 10 
years by ending the occupation of Iraq and bringing our troops home 
starting at the end of the year. The costs are simply untenable. CRS 
estimates that we will have spent over a half trillion dollars by the 
end of fiscal 08 on this unnecessary occupation of Iraq. This rate of 
expenditure, not to mention the cost in lives and cost to our 
international stability and credibility, is simply untenable.

Next, this budget takes steps at reducing our bloated military budget 
without compromising, actually, in fact, it enhances our national 
security. It accounts for eliminating obsolete Cold War era weapon 
systems and saves $600 billion over the next 10 years.

Additionally, this budget would save tens of billions of dollars over 
the next 10 years by implementing recommendations by the Government 
Accountability Office, which they have actually made, to eliminate 
waste, fraud and abuse at the Department of Defense, which our 
taxpayers should not allow to occur any longer.

This budget increases funding for critical components to help rebuild 
our communities, including those ravaged by Hurricane Katrina. For 
example, our budget increases funding to the Community Development 
Block Grants to $4.1 billion in 2008, whereas the President has 
repeatedly targeted this program for cuts.

This budget also invests an additional $1.6 billion per year in 
section 8 housing vouchers to ensure decent and affordable housing for 
all of those who need housing assistance.

Fourth, this budget contributes to our national security interests by 
doing more to meet the growing humanitarian needs throughout the world, 
especially with regard to increasing our contribution to the Global 
Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. We increased this by 
$100 billion.

Also, let's just say our Nation's security is predicated on a strong 
and healthy domestic population. It is critically important to 
adequately fund prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS in the United 
States.

The statistics, as it relates to HIV/AIDS here in America, are 
staggering. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 
racial and ethnic minorities represent 71 percent of new AIDS cases and 
64 percent of Americans living with HIV/AIDS. African Americans 
represent 50 percent of new AIDS cases, although only 12 percent of our 
population. Latinos account for 19 percent of new AIDS cases, although 
14 percent of the population.

I urge our colleagues to support this budget. It clearly is a budget 
that is fiscally responsible and is a moral document.