# FAA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `f90596e48130f331b598a8140851dcb7`
`Mr. REID — 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, it is really difficult for me to comprehend 
the reasoning of my friends on the other side of the aisle. All week we 
have done nothing. One of the most important bills that has been 
brought before this body this year, the Federal Aviation Administration 
reauthorization, as we speak there are thousands of airplanes going all 
across the United States. The equipment that allows those airplanes to 
take off and land is antiquated and way out of line for making air 
travel in America as safe as it should be. This legislation is very 
important and would be good for America, good for passengers.

We have in this legislation the passengers bill of rights, money to 
replace antiquated equipment. But the Republicans have stopped us from 
legislating. We have tried virtually everything.

I wanted to have an orderly process, which I think is not 
unreasonable. So last night I said: We have filled the different trees 
to allow amendments, but if you want to offer one, come on. No.

I said: Well, give us a list of the amendments you want to offer. No. 
They said: Bunning has an amendment. Let us see it. That went on all 
day yesterday. Finally, they told us today the subject matter of that 
particular amendment. When I learned about the subject matter, I said 
fine. It is something about coal being changed so they can use the fuel 
for flying airplanes. No.

I said: I will tell you what we will do. We will take down the tree. 
You can offer anything you want. No.

We heard what they didn't like were provisions that would allow rail 
service in this country to be updated and modernized. They didn't want 
that. There was some language in the bill that would do something to 
help make highway safety paramount. Don't want that. Offer an amendment 
to take it out. No.

Finally, I came to the conclusion that their objection was to a 
provision contained in the President's budget. I couldn't make up a 
story that is more ridiculous than the one I am relating, which is the 
truth. There is a provision in this bill that gives the State of New 
York the final amount of $20 billion that was promised them after 9/11 
by President Bush. That amount of money is in his budget for this year, 
which he gave us. I talked to the distinguished Republican leader and 
said: Offer an amendment to take it out. This is in the President's 
budget. We still oppose it, is what I was told.

So it is obvious. The Republicans don't want to do anything to 
improve, to modernize the Federal Aviation Administration. I hope 
people who are within the sound of my voice think about that when they 
are flying across the country.

We are not going to be able to do it this year, more than likely. 
There will be room made in the schedule by the Republicans to take up 
$170-odd billion for funding the war in Iraq from now until a year from 
this June. With glad hands, they will all come to the Senate floor and 
spend more money in Iraq. I


guess they don't want to pull the plug on spending $5,000 every second. 
Maybe they are trying to up the ante. I will have more to say about 
this tomorrow, but it is really a disappointment.

This is not a victory for the Republicans to maintain the status quo, 
is it? Of course not. Would it be a big victory for the Democrats to 
pass the Federal aviation reauthorization? No. It would be something 
good for the American people. I hope the American public sees this for 
what it is. We Democrats are in the majority. It is a slim majority. It 
is 51 to 49. The Republicans obviously are upset over the fact that we 
are in the majority. They want the record to show that this Congress 
accomplished nothing.

In spite of the obstacles and their obstruction, we have still 
accomplished quite a few things. We are proud of what we have 
accomplished, considering all the hoops we had to go through to get 
where we did.

I never give up hope. I hope there will be a new day in Washington 
starting next week. One way we can have a new day: We give all the 
blame to the Republicans in the Senate. They certainly are the ones who 
are on the firing lines. But do you know how much it would mean if the 
man down at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue would call the Republican leader 
and say our country needs this FAA reauthorization? We need it. The 
President could call down here and break this logjam, as he could have 
done on all the other legislation they have stopped. How in the world 
do these people go to bed at night not worrying about the air traffic 
system falling apart, because it is going to. It is in desperate shape.

Out in this parking lot there are new automobiles that have GPS 
systems in them. That is better equipment than the FAA has moving all 
the airplanes around the country.
















Cloture Motions


I send a cloture motion to the desk to the substitute amendment No. 
4627.