---
---

# TRIBUTES TO RETIRING SENATORS
## `f908c9517cd0629f9c92116200490dfb`
`Mr. REED — 10 December 2010`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to our 
colleagues who are departing the Senate after distinguished service on 
behalf of their States and on behalf of the Nation. I have been 
privileged to work with these individuals, to learn from them, to 
collaborate and cooperate with them, and to, in some small way, help 
them do what they have done so well--represent their States with 
fidelity, with great effort, and to move the agenda of the Nation 
forward.

















 Evan Bayh


Evan Bayh, a colleague and friend. We served together on the Banking 
Committee and the Armed Services Committee. His lovely wife Susan and 
their two children have contributed extraordinarily to Indiana as a 
Governor, and then as a Senator serving the Nation.

I can recall very early on in the operations in Iraq, where it became 
clear to Senator Bayh that unless we armored our humvee vehicles, 
thousands and thousands of soldiers would be at risk, and also marines, 
sailors, and airmen. He fought tenaciously to ensure, against initial 
opposition, that we were able to begin to armor those vehicles, begin 
to develop new generations of armored vehicles to protect our soldiers. 
So, quite literally, his efforts saved the lives of thousands of young 
Americans. For that alone, we owe him a huge debt of gratitude.

In every endeavor, from issues of children's health to education 
policy, he brought a thoughtful, measured, and brilliant mind to bear 
that is hard to match. I wish him the very best.
















 Robert Bennett


Bob Bennett and I served together on the Banking Committee. His 
thoughtful questioning and his deep knowledge of the subjects were 
critical on so many different issues. I remember when we were trying to 
get the extension of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act completed so the 
markets--particularly the markets for large properties--would not 
freeze up, he was instrumental in getting that done. That is just one 
example of what he has done throughout a career of public service to 
the people of Utah and of this Nation. I wish he and Joyce the very 
best as they continue to serve, as I am sure they will, this Nation and 
their State of Utah.


















Kit Bond


Kit Bond and Linda Bond have served with such distinction also. As a 
member of the Appropriations Committee, he has made wise and judicious 
decisions about how we invest in this country. In that process, he 
never forgot the obligation to groups who are often overlooked.

One of the areas where he has done so much work, and so effectively, 
has been on the issue of homelessness. His efforts, joined by our 
colleagues and friends, Barbara Mikulski and Patty Murray, have made a 
real difference in providing effective and efficient shelter for so 
many in our large communities and in our rural areas, who otherwise 
literally would be on the streets of America. One of the most 
disheartening images in this country is to see people who are forced to 
be on the streets. There are many reasons for that. But Kit Bond has 
done a lot to ensure there is at least a capacity to help people who 
need that kind of help. I thank him for that and commend him for so 
much of what he has done for the people of Missouri and the people of 
this Nation.
















 Sam Brownback


I congratulate Governor-elect Sam Brownback. He has decided to leave 
the rigors of the Senate for the tranquility of being a Governor. I see 
our Presiding Officer, who enjoyed the tranquility of being the 
Governor of Virginia. I know Sam is going to do great, but I think at 
some moment he might mop his brow and say that it wasn't quite as 
hectic back in the Senate.

Along with Mary and his family he has distinguished himself. Sam is 
someone who is indefatigable when involved in an issue. He does it from 
principle and conscience. We appreciate that.

I was pleased to work with him on legislation I introduced, the 
Conquer Childhood Cancer Act, which became law. That is one example of 
his great skills as a legislator. In foreign affairs he was someone who 
kept watch on areas of the world which otherwise might have been 
neglected. His efforts with respect to Darfur, striving to bring 
justice and peace to that region, are particularly commendable. I thank 
the Senator for his service and wish him well as he assumes the 
daunting responsibilities as Governor of the State of Kansas.

















Jim Bunning


Senator Jim Bunning and I served together for many years on the 
Banking Committee. Jim and Mary Catherine and their family brought so 
much to not only the Senate as an organization, but to the Senate as a 
group of individuals. Jim was one of the first and most insightful 
observers and critics of the growing issues in the securities market. 
He did it based upon his experience as a financial stockbroker in the 
world of finance. He did it also with his grasp of common sense and 
looking at things carefully and pragmatically, based on Main Street not 
on financial centers. We worked together on the Securities Committee, 
and we did it in a way that I enjoyed the collaboration immensely.

A focus on the issues and their importance to the country was also in 
the forefront of his mind. He distinguished himself immensely. I wish 
him well.
















 Roland Burris


Senator Roland Burris brought a great bit of vitality and energy to 
the Senate in his time here. I wish Roland and Berlean the very best. 
He has had a remarkable career in Illinois as someone who was in the 
banking industry and then public service--been a pathbreaker in so many 
different ways. When he came to the Senate, he came


with that same enthusiasm, knowing that his service would be limited in 
days but not limited by any aspirations or any ideals. He wanted to do 
the best for the people of Illinois and the Nation. I thank him.

















Byron Dorgan


Next is Byron and Kim Dorgan and their family. Again, Byron was an 
integral part for many years in this Senate. He is one of those 
individuals whose wisdom you appreciate more and more each day. He is 
someone who spoke years ago about the offshoring of jobs, and he spoke 
years ago about a tax system that doesn't reward investment in American 
jobs but ironically might encourage disinvestment of those jobs. He is 
someone who spoke with reason, candor, thoughtfulness, and facts about 
issues that the rest of us are beginning to recognize today are 
critical to the future of this country.

We will also miss his steady hand on the Appropriations Committee, 
where he battled to ensure that the reasonable priorities of this 
Nation were met. His support and help in terms of LIHEAP funding and 
his help to me personally in so many different ways is deeply 
appreciated. I thank him for his service. I know he will continue to 
provide, in his writings and speeches, the wise and thoughtful insights 
that, again, as we look back, I think we should have heeded with much 
more energy and enthusiasm when he spoke them.
















 Russ Feingold


Senator Russ Feingold--and this is said often, but it applies so 
accurately--is a conscience of this body. He is someone who came here 
to fight for the principles in which he deeply believes and would not 
deviate from that very serious challenge. He did it with skill, 
thoughtfulness, and gentility. I appreciate that very much. He was a 
champion for so many things--Pell grants, making sure the opportunity 
was still a watchword of this country. What he was most famous for was 
his efforts in campaign finance reform. Frankly, we will miss him 
dearly because of that.

There is a growing concern in this country that elections have become 
auctions, not about the quality of the candidates and their positions, 
but simply how much money can be funded and by how many different 
sources. So at a time when we have to confront again an even more 
serious challenge of campaign finance reform, we are losing one of the 
great voices and great minds in that effort. I know he will be helping 
us in this effort going forward, and I thank him for that.
















 Carte Goodwin


Carte Goodwin served with us for a very brief period of time, but in 
that time, we saw the incredible talent of this young Senator--his 
skill, his judgment, his ability to communicate with everyone in this 
Senate. He has been succeeded by another remarkable gentleman, Senator 
Manchin, who is certainly keeping up the high standards of Senators 
from West Virginia.

Carte, good luck, and thank you for your service, and I know you will 
continue to serve the country.

















 Judd Gregg


Senator Judd Gregg and Kathleen are stalwarts in the Senate, with 
their 18 years of service. I worked very closely with Judd on so many 
issues but most recently on the Dodd-Frank bill, where we worked 
collaboratively on this whole complex concept of derivatives. I was 
impressed with his intellect, his grasp, his balance, and I think we 
both pushed ourselves to think harder, to do better, and to come up 
with a solution, frankly, that was much better than I know I could have 
done individually. So I thank Judd Gregg for what he did there and on 
so many other things.

















Ted Kaufman


My dear friend Ted Kaufman and Lynne. We traveled the world 
together--including Afghanistan multiple times. He served with such 
distinction. He took up the effort to ensure that our securities 
markets in particular are well regulated, especially in regard to the 
new phenomenon of high-frequency trading. And it is no coincidence that 
just this week, we had a hearing on high-frequency trading. Ted has not 
let us forget that very critical issue for the future.
















 George LeMieux


Senator George LeMieux and his wife Meike. Again, they served here 
for a short period of time but with such distinction, such character, 
and such concern. I want to salute him. He and I worked together on the 
Teacher and Principal Improvement Act. He is a brilliant and a decent 
civil servant. I thank him.
















Blanche Lincoln


Blanche Lincoln. Blanche and I served in the House together. She 
decided to raise her family and then came back to the Senate. I can say 
without any hesitation that without her very courageous stand with 
respect to some of the aspects of the Dodd-Frank financial legislation, 
it would not be as comprehensive, as effective as it is today. She 
stood up and essentially demanded that we create a structure where you 
could trade derivatives rather than simply clear them. That is a 
remarkable achievement, and it is her achievement.
















 Arlen Specter


Finally--and I beg the indulgence of my colleague from Vermont, who I 
know is scheduled to speak--let me say to Arlen Specter and Joan 
Specter, thank you for such service. Senator Specter is the champion of 
NIH. It is an incredible achievement, what he has done to fund that 
over the years.
















George Voinovich


