---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `f9154ce8f02e751de059c44f122252b2`
`Mr. CORNYN — 5 August 2010`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I want to address the nomination of 
Solicitor General Kagan to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court. Earlier 
this week, I discussed my opposition to the nomination, but at that 
time I didn't go into any depth about my concerns with regard to her 
participation in the military recruiting policy that banned the U.S. 
military from the Office of Career Services at Harvard Law School.

While this incident has been discussed a lot, I think it is very 
important to establish for the record exactly what happened. I believe 
a due respect for the men and women of our military and the gravity of 
this debate demand a full review of the facts behind what Elena Kagan 
did as dean of the Harvard Law School to exclude and stigmatize the 
U.S. military.

Harvard Law School adopted an antidiscrimination policy in 1979. This 
policy states that any employer that wished to use the Office of Career 
Services at the law school had to sign a statement affirming that it 
does not discriminate on various bases, including sexual orientation. 
The military--not just because of its policy but because of the policy 
of the Congress and the law that we passed--could not sign this 
statement because of the don't ask, don't tell policy adopted during 
the Clinton administration.

In 1993, when a Democratic Congress and the Clinton administration 
changed the military's outright ban on gays in the military to adopt 
this don't ask, don't tell policy, Harvard took the position that the 
military was still not in compliance with its antidiscrimination 
policy. As a result of Harvard's policy, from 1979 through 2002, the 
U.S. military was barred from recruiting individuals at the Harvard Law 
School's Office of Career Services, where everyone else who was 
recruiting on campus was allowed to conduct interviews and recruit 
potential candidates.

While this ban on the services of the Office of Career Services was 
in effect, the Harvard Law School Veterans Association essentially took 
the place of the Office of Career Services and established an off-
campus interview forum for law students interested in serving their 
country in the U.S. military. So because they were banned from the 
Office of Career Services, the military had to look for an alternative 
venue or forum provided by the Harvard Law School Veterans Association 
in order to conduct those interviews.

But then something very important happened. In 1995, Congress enacted 
another law, popularly known as the Solomon Amendment. The Solomon 
Amendment said you cannot receive Federal funds--if you are an 
educational institution--if you, in effect, prohibit military 
recruiting on your campus. In other words, they could have continued 
their policy of discrimination against the military, but they would 
have been denied Federal funds under the plain wording of the Solomon 
Amendment passed in 1995.

The Secretary of Defense, under the Solomon Amendment, has to make a 
finding that the school is not offering access to military recruiters 
that is ''equal in quality and scope to the access that the school 
provides other employers.'' That was the 1995 law. In 2002, the 
Secretary of Defense of the United States found that Harvard's 
exclusion of military recruiters from the Office of Career Services was 
not ''equal access.''

In response to this Federal law and the finding by the Secretary of 
Defense, Ms. Kagan's predecessor, Robert


Clark, essentially capitulated and gave the military access to the 
Office of Career Services in 2002. So Dean Robert Clark, Dean Kagan's 
predecessor, rather than be denied Federal funds to Harvard by 
violating the Solomon Amendment and denying access to military 
recruiters to the Office of Career Services, decided in 2002 to change 
Harvard's policy. Thus, when Ms. Kagan became dean of the law school in 
the spring of 2003, the military had full access to the Office of 
Career Services to recruit interested candidates for military service.

For a while, Dean Kagan maintained the military's access to the 
Office of Career Services in compliance with the Solomon Amendment. But 
it is clear that Dean Kagan did not like that because she voiced her 
political opposition to the don't ask, don't tell policy--in other 
words, the law enacted by Congress and to which the Department of 
Defense was accountable for enforcing--in an e-mail she sent to all of 
Harvard's law students saying that she ''abhorred'' the ''don't ask, 
don't tell policy'' and she considered it ''a moral injustice of the 
first order.''

In January 2004, Dean Kagan joined 53 other members of the Harvard 
law faculty in filing a friend of the court brief supporting a 
challenge to the Solomon Amendment in the Third Circuit Court of 
Appeals. So even though she maintained access for a while, inherited 
that policy under her predecessor, in 2004, when a lawsuit was filed to 
challenge the Solomon Amendment, Dean Kagan and other Harvard Law 
School faculty joined in a friend of the court brief to try to strike 
down the Solomon Amendment.

In November of 2004, a split panel on the Third Circuit Court of 
Appeals actually held that the Solomon Amendment was reasonably likely 
to be unconstitutional and sent the case back to the district court 
with instructions to issue an injunction halting the Solomon 
Amendment's enforcement.

Now, this is very important because the Third Circuit is one of our 
circuit courts of appeal in the United States, but it is not the U.S. 
Supreme Court. By that I mean when it makes a decision, its decision 
only applies to the territory or that part of the United States that is 
within the Third Circuit. That is important because Harvard is not in 
the Third Circuit. Harvard is in the First Circuit. So in effect, the 
Third Circuit panel's decision had no legal effect on Harvard Law 
School.

Nevertheless, the very next day, after the Third Circuit issued its 
decision, Dean Kagan changed the Harvard Law School policy to once 
again bar the military from using the services of the Office of Career 
Services. In other words, she was not compelled to do so by law but 
exercising her discretion as dean, she chose to reinstate this policy 
of barring military recruiters from the Office of Career Services.

Then, in January of 2005, the Third Circuit issued an order staying 
its enforcement pending a decision by the U.S. Supreme Court. After 
this, of course, the Third Circuit ruling did not even have any effect 
even in the Third Circuit, much less in the jurisdiction in the circuit 
with jurisdiction over Harvard. But even after the order was stayed, 
Ms. Kagan continued the policy of barring military recruiters from the 
Office of Career Services.

While her policy barring military recruiters from the Office of 
Career Services was in effect, Dean Kagan approached the Harvard Law 
School Veterans Association and asked them to serve as an alternate 
channel for military recruiting at Harvard Law School. In 2005, the law 
school veterans declined, writing:




 Given our tiny membership, meager budget, and lack of any 


 office space, we possess neither the time nor the resources 


 to routinely schedule campus rooms or advertise extensively 


 for outside organizations, as is the norm for most recruiting 


 events.


In short, the law school veterans told Dean Kagan that the separate 
access she wanted them to offer the military would not be equal because 
they didn't have the ability to match the resources of the Office of 
Career Services.

In May 2005, the Supreme Court of the United States then said they 
were going to hear an appeal of the Third Circuit's decision, and they 
granted the writ of certiorari to the Defense Department's appeal of 
that case to review their finding on the Solomon Amendment. Over the 
summer of 2005, the Defense Department notified Dean Kagan that it 
would rescind Harvard's funding--in other words, it would deny Federal 
funding to Harvard pursuant to the Solomon Amendment--if she continued 
to deny the military access to the Office of Career Services.

Faced with this ultimatum, on September 20, 2005, Dean Kagan finally 
ended her 10-month unlawful denial of access and announced that pending 
the Supreme Court's decision she would lift the ban and give the 
military access to the Office of Career Services. But in the meantime, 
she filed another friend of the court brief, this time in the Supreme 
Court of the United States, arguing the Solomon Amendment should not 
apply to her actions barring the military from the Harvard Law School's 
Office of Career Services.

Ultimately, the Supreme Court unanimously rejected Dean Kagan's 
position and unanimously upheld the Solomon Amendment.

To recap: Dean Kagan's ban on military recruiters lasted for 10 
months--from November of 2004 through September of 2005. During that 
entire span of time, the Department of Defense position was always--was 
always--that the ban violated the congressionally passed Solomon 
Amendment. Never in that span of time did the Supreme Court, the First 
Circuit, or any other court with jurisdiction over Harvard adopt Dean 
Kagan's view regarding the scope or enforceability of the Solomon 
Amendment. In that span of time, only a split panel of the Third 
Circuit held that the Solomon Amendment was unenforceable, and for all 
but 2 months of that time, the Third Circuit's order was stayed.


Despite all of this, Dean Kagan persisted in barring military 
recruiters from the Office of Career Services and insisted that the 
military could obtain separate but equal access to Harvard Law School 
through alternate routes. Dean Kagan held that the Supreme Court's 
position ran afoul of the Solomon Amendment, the findings of the 
Secretary of Defense, and ultimately the legal judgment of the entire 
Supreme Court. I believe these are the undisputed facts of the case.

So why do Ms. Kagan's actions matter? I would argue that they matter 
for two reasons. First is the message her actions sent about her lack 
of respect for the U.S. military at Harvard Law School during her 
deanship. Ms. Kagan claims she holds the military in the highest 
respect, but I have to ask you, this notion that you are going to 
provide separate but equal access to interviewing services is not one 
that shows respect. It is one that provides an unnecessary and really 
reprehensible stigma on the U.S. military, which had no control over a 
policy passed by Congress under the Solomon Amendment.

Of course, she did this at a time when hundreds of thousands of young 
men and women deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan were wearing the uniform 
of their country to protect their fellow citizens and the rule of law. 
Dean Kagan's actions in taking every step legally possible to relegate 
the military to what she herself believed was separate but equal status 
placed an unmistakable stigma on the military during a time of war.

I believe her decision to stigmatize the military is reason enough to 
oppose her nomination to a lifetime seat on the U.S. Supreme Court, but 
her actions as dean are troubling for another reason as well. I believe 
her actions as dean indicate strong evidence that, as a Justice, 
someone sitting in judgment on the U.S. Supreme Court, she would tend 
to advance her political preferences rather than take a traditional 
approach of a judge in following the law.

Many of our colleagues have pointed out correctly that Ms. Kagan has 
never been a judge. While that is not a requirement to serve on the 
Supreme Court, this lack of judicial experience makes it difficult to 
tell whether Ms. Kagan would adopt a judicial activist philosophy if 
she takes a seat on the Court. Because she has never held the job of a 
judge--we don't have any record to judge her by--we must look to the 
jobs she has held and the actions she has taken to see how she is 
likely to perform her job as a member of the U.S. Supreme Court.

In the 10 months during which she banned the U.S. military from the 
Harvard Law School campus, I believe Dean Kagan showed a willingness to


bend the law and facts to advance her own political goals of protesting 
the don't ask, don't tell policy and, as I said, stigmatizing the 
military in the process. Despite the lack of any binding authority, she 
adopted an interpretation of the Solomon Amendment so tenuous that it 
could not garner the vote of a single Justice on the U.S. Supreme 
Court, and she did so for the express purpose of advancing her 
objections to a policy she said she abhorred.

Bending the law and the facts to reach a preferred result is exactly 
what judicial activists do, and there is a pattern in Ms. Kagan's legal 
career of bending the law and facts to advance her preferred policy 
results. So while Ms. Kagan has never been a judge, she has established 
a disturbing pattern of doing what judicial activists do. Ms. Kagan's 
actions in her previous jobs showed she is very likely not to embrace 
the role of a judge who decides cases based on the Constitution as 
written and the law as passed by Congress that she is responsible for 
enforcing if they are, in fact, constitutional but, rather, she gives 
every indication of someone who believes it is within her role and 
prerogative as a Justice to basically make the law rather than to 
enforce the law as written. No Member of this Chamber should be 
surprised if, for the rest of her life as a Supreme Court Justice, Ms. 
Kagan does not merely follow the law as written but, rather, bends the 
law to advance her progressive political agenda.

Our Constitution is too precious and the Supreme Court is too 
powerful for us to accept without question a President's nominee to the 
Supreme Court. The Framers of the Constitution recognized the 
importance of this appointment and the power given to a Supreme Court 
Justice, who serves for life without any political accountability to 
the electorate. That is why they gave us the responsibility to give our 
advice and consent.

The nomination and confirmation of a Supreme Court Justice is really 
a two-step process. First, the President makes his nomination. The 
President can nominate anyone the President wants who meets the 
qualifications of the Constitution. But then it is our responsibility 
to exercise our constitutional duty to provide advice and consent.

I believe Ms. Kagan has failed to embrace the traditional view of 
judging that I believe all judges must adhere to at the risk of, 
rather, them becoming a lawmaker, which is incompatible with the role 
of a Justice. I believe a judge who assumes a role of being a 
policymaker or a lawmaker is, in essence, a lawbreaker.

Indeed, Ms. Kagan's career up to this point shows a willingness to 
bend the law and the facts to advance her own beliefs, and I fear this 
trend will continue in an activist tenure on the Supreme Court. For 
these reasons, I oppose her nomination and will vote no.