---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `f925ee96cad8969a1c32adde8b16d683`
`Mr. CONYERS — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 3326, the 
Fiscal Year 2010 Department of Defense Appropriations Act.

The President's announcement last week came as no surprise to me and 
many of my colleagues; he has consistently stated throughout the 
Presidential campaign and during his first year in office that he is 
committed to shifting military resources from Iraq into Afghanistan. 
Nonetheless, I am disappointed the President has moved ahead with, what 
I believe to be, an incorrect course of action.

As we move forward in this process, it is imperative that the House 
consider all options about how to best succeed in Afghanistan. It is in 
this spirit today that I want to announce the creation of a new ''Peace 
and Progress in Afghanistan Caucus'' that will give Democrats and 
Republicans a place to organize and advocate for a new strategy that 
recognizes the need to redeploy our troops, while strengthening our 
civilian and diplomatic approaches.

The presence of military troops in Afghanistan is having a 
detrimental effect on our efforts to secure a lasting peace in the 
region and diffuse the threat of international terrorism. Our military 
presence only inflames anti-American resentment.

Only by pursuing a wide-ranging policy that focuses on reorienting 
the United States' commitment to the Afghan government and people by 
emphasizing indigenous reconciliation and reconstruction strategies, 
rigorous regional diplomacy, and swift redeployment of the US military, 
will we ultimately succeed in Afghanistan.''

I was extremely heartened that two of the three prongs of the 
President's new strategy focus on a civilian surge and on diplomacy 
with Pakistan. It is a shame that the funding in this bill will not 
support these worthy approaches. The President believes that the United 
States can transform resentment into hope by working with our 
humanitarian and local government partners on the ground to give the 
Afghan people access to education, strong civic institutions, and a 
sustainable, legitimate source of income.

I believe that a new focus on a civilian surge should also empower 
local NGOs and initiatives that directly benefit the Afghan people, 
like the highly successful National Solidarity Project, an Afghan-run 
community development program.

Similarly, if the Pakistani people understand that we are committed 
to helping secure their safety and prosperity, they will step up their 
efforts to combat terrorism within their borders. Additionally, I 
believe we must expand our thinking beyond Pakistan to include other 
actors and countries that affect the greater region. One of the least 
discussed aspects of this conflict is the role India must play in 
promoting regional peace. For years, the Pakistani military and 
intelligence services have been hesitant to crack down on Taliban 
militants operating in the tribal regions because they fear the 
establishment of an Afghan government that would be susceptible to 
Indian influence. Such a worst case scenario, in their view, would give 
one of their traditional regional foes a foothold on both their 
northern and southern borders.

In order to secure a long-term regional peace, the President must 
engage India and Pakistan to seek a final political agreement on 
Kashmir. Only when Pakistan feels secure in the south, will the 
Pakistani army be able to focus its efforts on defeating the Taliban 
who dwell along the Afghan border.

I look forward to working with the President to promote and expand 
these critical approaches to securing victory.

The President has committed to ending the war in a responsible 
manner. Although we disagree on the means being employed to reach that 
laudable goal at the moment, I believe that I and other pro-peace, pro-
national security Members of Congress can help him can craft a 
successful policy that will bring our troops home as soon as possible.

In the meantime, I will continue to oppose funding a war that 
emphasizes a heavy military footprint. No amount of additional troops 
can bring a war with no military solution to an end.