# FAMILY SMOKING PREVENTION AND TOBACCO CONTROL ACT
## `f93de23769c9362ef86070eb93cfd39e`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, it wasn't that long ago that the Senate 
voted almost unanimously to oppose bringing any terrorists at 
Guantanamo to the United States. But earlier this week, the 
administration ignored the will of the American people as expressed 
through that Senate vote by transferring a Guantanamo detainee named 
Ahmed Ghailani to New York. The purpose of the transfer is to try 
Ghailani in a U.S. civilian court for his role in the African embassy 
bombings of 1998. The administration's decision raises a number of 
serious questions.

First, Ghailani has already admitted that he attended a terrorist 
training camp in Afghanistan and assisted those who planned and carried 
out the embassy attack, but says he did so unintentionally. In a U.S. 
civilian court, if you're found not guilty, you're allowed to go free. 
So if we are going to treat this terrorist detainee as a common 
civilian criminal, what will happen to Ghailani if he's found not 
guilty? And what will happen to other detainees the administration 
wants to try in civilian courts if they are found not guilty? Will they 
be released? If so, where? In New York? In American communities? Or 
will they be released overseas, where they could return to terror and 
target American soldiers or innocent civilians?

Second, if Ghailani isn't allowed to go free, will he be detained by 
the government? If so, where will he be detained? Would the 
administration detain him on U.S. soil, despite the objections of 
Congress and the American people?

Third, why does the administration think a civilian court is the 
appropriate place to try Ghailani? Congress enacted the military 
commissions process on a bipartisan basis as a way to bring terrorists 
to justice without disclosing information that could harm national 
security. Some have complained that the previous administration moved 
too slowly on military commissions, but a lot of that delay was due to 
the constant legal challenges that were leveled against the process, 
including by some in the current administration. In fact, Ghailani's 
case was already being handled by the military commissions process--to 
the point that a judge had established a trial schedule for him. I ask 
unanimous consent that the trial schedule be printed in the Record.