---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `f94360c14d634f68e2828ab385c54e64`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 11 July 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, it is my understanding that the Levin-
Reed amendment has been laid down. I wish to say a few words about it 
and the situation in Iraq in general.

Once again, the Senate is confronted with a series of votes over the 
future of Iraq. These votes present a very simple choice: Continue with 
more of the same, or change course. To me, the choice is crystal clear. 
The United States should and must change course in Iraq. We must begin 
to redeploy our forces and reevaluate what is truly in our national 
interests.

This is not the first time we have been confronted with such a 
choice. Many of us have voted over and over and over again for change, 
yet this President has refused to listen. He has worn blinders. He has 
ignored the views of Congress and the American people. Majorities in 
both the Senate and the House have voted to redeploy our forces from 
Iraq, but the President vetoed the legislation and there were not the 
votes to override, so we are back again facing many of the same 
questions. Will the President listen this time?

In this current debate new voices have emerged, raising significant 
concerns about the progress of the war. This includes Senator Lugar, 
the deeply respected Senator from Indiana, who said in a very eloquent 
speech before this body--and I have had the privilege of reading it in 
detail and I wish to quote him:




 In my judgment, the costs and risks of continuing down the 


 current path outweigh the potential benefits that might be 


 achieved.


This includes Senator Warner, who has said that waiting until 
September is too long. This includes Senator Voinovich, Senator Hagel, 
Senator Smith, and Senator Snowe, who have questioned the current path. 
Will this President listen?


Moving from the Halls of Congress to the streets of Baghdad, it is 
clear to see that this is not a rhetorical game. It is about facts on 
the ground, and the facts are this: It has been 4/1/2/ years since U.S. 
forces entered Iraq. That is longer than we conducted World War II. 
Yet, the nation remains in chaos. Violence continues unabated. The 
insurgency is as strong as ever. The internecine fighting between Shia 
and Sunni is strong. Every day, there are more bombings, more IEDs, 
more deaths. In total, we have lost 3,600 brave men and women, almost 
500 since this surge began 5 months ago. On average, four U.S. troops 
are being killed every day in Iraq.

Has the surge worked? Five months into it, it is clear that the surge 
has failed to stop the violence. Fatalities and sectarian attacks are 
on the rise. At no period in the war have we lost as many American 
troops as in the last 3 months. If the trend continues, 2007 will be 
the deadliest since the war began.

The promise of the surge was not that it would solve all of Iraq's 
problems, but that it would increase security and stability so that 
Iraq's government could confront the difficult political questions. So 
we must ask the question: Has it? But in this area too, there has been 
no progress; no progress on passing an oil revenue-sharing law; no 
progress on reforming the de-Baathification system which, to a great 
extent, was responsible for this insurgency in the first place; no 
progress in holding provincial elections, and no substantial progress 
on any other benchmark.

In fact, the Maliki government seems to be under siege. Sectarian 
tensions are mounting, and there have been calls for a no-confidence 
vote in the Prime Minister. So the vaunted surge has not worked and 
there has been no political progress. Yet, this President has asked for 
more time and more resources, and he gives no hints that he


now recognizes how dire the situation is. He gives no indication that 
he believes the course must be changed. He provides the American people 
with no exit strategy. To me, this represents a major failure of 
leadership.

I believe America's continued mission in Iraq is counterproductive. 
Therefore, the time has come for a change of course. I believe that 
within 120 days, we must begin to redeploy our combat troops. The goal 
would be to transition the majority of U.S. troops out of Iraq by April 
2008, and that is exactly what the Levin-Reed amendment does. A small 
supporting force would remain in Iraq for the purposes of training, 
counterterrorism, border security, and force protection. This would 
move the vast majority of our troops out of harm's way.

Just as importantly, moving out of Iraq would open the door to a 
reevaluation of our national security interests in the region. Our 
Nation faces major challenges, and the primary focus on Iraq has 
allowed these problems to fester unaddressed. These include preventing 
terrorists from gaining safe haven in Afghanistan or, yes, Iraq. That 
is an abiding national security interest of this country. Senator Lugar 
alluded to it in his remarks. I certainly agree. To prevent Iraq from 
becoming a safe harbor for terrorists should remain a national security 
goal of the United States.

Secondly, preventing the violence from spreading throughout the 
Middle East, Afghanistan, and the cities of Europe.

Third, thwarting Iranian domination of the region, and persuading the 
Iranian government that continued development of nuclear weapons is not 
in its best interests. This can't be done by not talking with Iran; it 
can only be done by talking with Iran. This is what we should be doing.

Fourth, pursuing an Israeli-Palestinian peace settlement. Yesterday 
afternoon, I met with the Foreign Minister of Egypt and he agreed. This 
is a window of opportunity to move toward a peace settlement between 
the Israelis and the Palestinians. To once again overlook that 
opportunity is a big mistake.

Finally, containing the damage done to our credibility around the 
world. Our credibility has suffered. The war has spawned terror. Over 
this past weekend, I happened to hear Peter Bergin, the distinguished 
expert on Osama bin Laden, speaking on CNN. He estimated that terrorism 
has increased sevenfold because of our involvement in Iraq.

Many people say if we leave Iraq, the Middle East collapses. I don't 
believe that. If we leave Iraq, we leave Shia and Sunni to come to 
grips with the problems between them, without the United States being a 
buffer and creating the point of attack for terrorists and insurgents.

I say remove that point of attack and begin to solve some of the 
problems. The simple truth is that none of these initiatives can be 
pursued adequately so long as we are bogged down in Iraq. So I believe 
the time has come to change course. We are 4 years and $450 billion 
into the war. Costs are increasing at $10 billion a month. We are 
losing 100 soldiers a month. Our Armed Forces are stretched thin, 
equipment is worn, recruiting is down, and no one can estimate what the 
impact will be come next April, when forces will be unable to meet the 
rotations.

We will be paying the costs of this war for decades to come. Thanks 
to medical science and battlefield medicine, many soldiers ordinarily 
would have died, but they have been saved. Some have egregious 
injuries. We have all seen the people with traumatic brain injury, 
amputees--single, double, quadruple amputees, people who will need care 
for the rest of their lives.

We have a choice: more of the same or change course. The Levin-Reed 
amendment represents a change of course. It represents this Senate 
standing up and saying forcefully we want our people out. We want 
redeployment within 120 days, and we want us off the streets, no longer 
to be that point of attack between Shia and Sunni. So the choice could 
not be clearer. It is time to act. I am very much in support of a 
Levin-Reed amendment. I very much hope we will have a chance to vote on 
the substance of it.

I yield the floor.