# BLUE DOG COALITION DEFICITS AND DEBT BACKGROUND
## `f948d3935c7086ff818c28a9106248aa`
`Mr. ROSS — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Madam Speaker, this evening, as most Tuesday evenings, I 
rise on behalf of the 43 member strong, fiscally conservative 
Democratic Blue Dog Coalition. We are 43 fiscally conservative 
Democrats that are committed to restoring common sense and fiscal 
discipline to our Nation's government. We are not from one particular 
region of the country. Members of the Blue Dog Coalition stretch from 
California and Utah to New York, and we are united in trying to restore 
fiscal sanity to our Nation's government. Why? Because today, the U.S. 
national debt is $8,821,563,738,020. And I ran out of room, but right 
here it should say 12 cents. And for every man, woman and child in 
America, your share of the national debt is $29,225.95. It is what we 
refer to as the debt tax, d-e-b-t, which is one tax that cannot be cut; 
it cannot go away until we get our Nation's fiscal house in order.

It is hard now to believe, but from 1998 to 2001, we had a balanced 
budget in this country of ours. And now, under the past 6 years of 
Republican rule, with the Republicans controlling the White House, the 
House and the Senate, after 6 years we've got the largest debt ever in 
our Nation's history and the largest deficit ever in our Nation's 
history. In fiscal year 2004, it was $568 billion. In fiscal year 2005, 
it was $493.6 billion. In fiscal year 2006 it was $434 billion. Fiscal 
year 2006 it was $247 billion, and the projected deficit for fiscal 
year 2007 is $172 billion, but not really. The projected deficit for 
fiscal year 2007 is $357 billion. When they tell you it's only $172 
billion, they're not counting the money they're borrowing from the 
Social Security trust fund.

When I first came to Congress in 2001, the first bill I wrote was a 
bill to tell the politicians in Washington to keep their hands off the 
Social Security trust fund. The Republican leadership refused to give 
me a hearing or a vote on that bill, and now we know why, because they 
are using that money to fund our debt. $357 billion deficit projected 
for fiscal year 2007, and much of that is coming, about half of that is 
coming from the Social Security trust fund. Where is the rest of it 
coming from? It's coming from foreigners. In fact, this administration 
has borrowed more money from foreigners in the past 6 years than the 
previous 42 Presidents combined. Let me repeat that. This 
administration has borrowed more money from foreigners in the past 6 
years than the previous 42 Presidents combined. My good friend and a 
founder of the Blue Dogs, John Tanner, put it best when he said, If 
China decides to invade Taiwan, we will have to borrow more money from 
China to defend Taiwan.

David Letterman has a top 10 list, and we've got one, too. The U.S. 
is becoming increasingly dependent on foreign lenders. Foreign lenders 
currently hold a total of about $2.199 trillion of our public debt. 
Compare this to only $623.3 billion in foreign holdings back in 1993. 
Again, this administration in the past 6 years has borrowed more money 
from foreign central banks and foreign investors than the previous 42 
Presidents combined.

Japan, $637.4 billion. The United States of America has borrowed 
$346.5 billion from China. The United Kingdom, $223.5 billion. OPEC, 
yes OPEC, and we wonder why gasoline is approaching three bucks a 
gallon. Our Nation has borrowed $97.1 billion from OPEC to fund tax 
cuts in this country for folks earning over $400,000 a year.


Korea, $67.7 billion. Taiwan, $63.2 billion. The Caribbean banking 
centers, $63.6 billion. Hong Kong, $51 billion. Germany, $52.1 billion. 
And rounding out the top 10 list, and this will surprise some folks, 
the United States of America's 10th largest loanee to our government is 
the Government of Mexico and investors in Mexico. Mexico, investors 
have loaned the United States of America $38.2 billion. That's right, 
the United States of America has borrowed $38.2 billion from Mexico. 
And that rounds out the top 10 list of the foreign countries that our 
Nation is borrowing money from.

We believe this is very critical to our Nation's security. That is 
why we are trying to restore fiscal discipline and common sense to our 
Nation's government, put an end to these massive debts and massive 
deficits. Our Nation is borrowing a billion dollars a day, but before 
we borrow a billion dollars a day, we're going to spend half a billion 
paying interest on a debt we've already got. And that's a half a 
billion that can't go for Social Security, it can't go for health care, 
it can't go for new roads and fixing roads and infrastructure. It can't 
go for education, it can't go for homeland security, and it cannot go 
for veterans benefits. Why? Because we are spending that money, a half 
a billion dollars a day, simply paying interest on the debt we've 
already got before we increase it a billion dollars today. I think we 
need that half a bill to invest in the best and most advanced 
technology out there when it comes to bullet-proof vests to protect our 
men and women in uniform, to give them the best and most advanced 
equipment they need.

I've got a father, John Grant, in Hot Springs, Arkansas, that's very 
concerned about his son going back for a second tour of duty in Iraq 
and not having the most advanced body armor that's on the market today. 
A half a billion a day going to pay interest on the national debt, how 
many modern, state-of-the-art body armor vests could we buy with just 
the amount of money we're spending today paying interest on the 
national debt?

I am joined this evening by a number of fellow Blue Dogs, and I am 
grateful they have come down to spend some time with me on the House 
floor this evening.

At this time I would like to yield to a fellow Blue Dog, someone 
that's very active on the Blue Dog Coalition, someone that serves on 
the Armed Services Committee, among other important committees, and 
that is my friend from neighboring Oklahoma, Dan Boren.