# None
## `f94b0c986ab6b55f6db6b9456e3dd414`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, the bottom line is that the President, 
and we have to talk about the student loan issue that he talked about 
earlier today, and I think it is important that we talk about that 
because again we had Members here talking about SCHIP and we were all 
once representatives in our States on the legislative end on the State 
level. But I think it is important for us to, and where is my red chart 
to talk about the debt.

We just had Mr. Pallone as the chairman of the subcommittee down 
here, and we have a proposal talking about $50 billion over the next 5 
years. Let me say real quick, per year it is $120 billion in Iraq and 
climbing. I say that to a mayor or to a Governor, I


would like to have my hands on $120 billion that the Federal commitment 
has made.

Mr. Ryan, it is not the President, that is all too easy. The 
President is in his last leg of a swim meet here. He has the last day 
of school kind of syndrome. All of us know what the last day or last 
week of school felt like. I am about to leave the institution, and I 
don't have to worry about what is happening.

But guess what, it is not the last day of school for the American 
people and those that are in harm's way. We have a responsibility to 
stand for them. I am not going to just leave the President. I am going 
to say that those individuals on the Republican side of the aisle, not 
all of them, but a majority of them, are willing to stand with the 
President that ran this record debt up that we have now. A $1.19 
trillion debt and climbing, done by the Republican majority in the 
108th and 109th Congress and beyond, of rubber stamping what the 
President has done.

We all live the same kind of lives. We all understand our 
responsibility up here. But I tell you, to be able to move in a new 
direction in Iraq, it is going to take more than just Democratic 
majority Members, especially in the Senate, to be able to bring some 
real sense to this new direction in Iraq. The real issue is that there 
is a choice to be made.

Mr. Ryan, some of the Members on the Republican side used to laugh at 
us when we were on the floor. I see them in the hall and they are like, 
''You all are funny. Do you really believe people are going to follow 
what you all are talking about if you are given the opportunity to 
lead?''

Well, guess what, how do you like us now? People believe. Democrats, 
Republicans, Independents. And you know something, some people who 
voted for the first time in their lives who had given up on the 
political system, and I will be doggone if their vote goes in vain. I 
am telling you right now, we need Republican Members of this Congress 
to vote on behalf of our troops.

Want to help the troops? Vote for redeployment. You want to help the 
troops, vote for antiprofiteering legislation. You want to help the 
troops, when Mr. Murtha comes to this floor with an appropriations bill 
that is going to bring major sense as it relates to the appropriations 
in this war, then support that if you want to support the troops.

Mr. Ryan, I am going to yield to Mr. Murphy by saying this: As of 
July 11, today, the deaths in Iraq as it relates to U.S. military 
personnel, and this is not even counting those clandestine agents that 
are out there, those civilian folks, 3,609. That is as of 10 a.m. this 
morning.

Total number of wounded in action, returned to duty, 14,681.

Number of wounded that did not return to duty, 12,014 and climbing.

I want to say this is real. This is above and beyond Democrat-
Republican politics, Independent politics, whatever the case may be. We 
are moving in the direction of redeployment of our troops and a new 
policy. The President can stand in the schoolhouse door all he wants 
to, but the bottom line is he is empowered by the Republican minority 
that are saying that we are not going to allow you to have enough votes 
to be able to override what the President is saying. That is where it 
comes down to it.

I can tell you, like I shared with some of my colleagues, you 
continue to follow the President on the old way, and I guarantee you, 
just like I said in the 108th Congress and 109th Congress, and I don't 
have a whole lot of say in what goes on in some of these districts 
because people have their own heart and mind. They read and they see. 
They see the people that are not coming back. People are being 
deployed.

They are not glad they are going. They are crying when people are 
going. Will I see my husband? Will I see my father again? What are we 
doing? What does this mean? We are in the middle of a civil war; what 
does that mean? Will my husband or wife be knocking down some door as 
we speak here on this floor, having Iraqis huddle in the middle of a 
room on a security mission that is necessary because the Iraqi 
government is not doing it, and those individuals will never forget 
that. And they are not doing it just because they feel like doing it; 
they are doing it because it is the mission. We support them in that 
mission, but the bottom line is we have to have a new attitude and new 
direction.

There are Iraqi troops that should be doing those house checks and 
taking that responsibility, and an Iraqi parliament that should be 
coming to work every day to make sure that they do what they do. It 
shouldn't be our people, and people know it. So the bottom line is, 
when you are in a place where you don't understand exactly where you 
should be, fall on the side of commonsense. That is all that I am 
saying.

Mr. Murphy.