---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `f95412a4f0714679f6cd9274bb33c3b5`
`Mr. BAYH — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart and deep 
sense of gratitude to honor the life of a brave soldier from Rochester. 
Nick Patterson, 24 years old, was killed on September 10 in Baghdad, 
Iraq, from injuries sustained when his vehicle rolled over returning 
from a raid. With an optimistic future before him, Nick risked 
everything to fight for the values Americans hold close to our hearts, 
in a land halfway around the world.

Nick graduated from Rochester High School in 2001 where he excelled 
in basketball and baseball. His senior year, Nick was the leading 
scorer on the basketball team. He was known for being a star athlete 
that brought huge energy into sports and a hard-working student. His 
teacher, Linda Brenna, said, ''He had such a great sense of humor and 
could make a tense moment light.'' Those who knew Nick respected him 
for his strong work ethic and his humor.

Nick was killed while serving his country in Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
He was assigned to the 1st Squadron, 73rd Cavalry Regiment, 82nd 
Airborne Division in Fort Bragg, NC. Nick is survived by his wife Jayme 
Saner Patterson, his 4-year-old son Reilley, and his parents James and 
Virginia Patterson. He will be remembered as a loving husband, father, 
son, and friend.

Today, I join Nick's family and friends in mourning his death. While 
we struggle to bear our sorrow over this loss, we can also take pride 
in the example he set, bravely fighting to make the world a safer 
place. It is his courage and strength of character that people will 
remember when they think of Nick, a memory that will burn brightly 
during these continuing days of conflict and grief.

Nick was known for his dedication to his family and his love of 
country. Today and always, Nick will be remembered by family members, 
friends and fellow Hoosiers as a true American hero, and we honor the 
sacrifice he made while dutifully serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice in honoring Nick's sacrifice, I 
am reminded of President Lincoln's remarks as he addressed the families 
of the fallen soldiers in Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot 
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and 
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power 
to add or detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 
say here, but it can never forget what they did here.'' This statement 
is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, as I am certain 
that the impact of Nick's actions will live on far longer that any 
record of these words.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Nicholas J. Patterson in the 
Record of the Senate for his service to this country and for his 
profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. When I think about 
this just cause in which we are engaged, and the unfortunate pain that 
comes with the loss of our heroes, I hope that families like Nick's can 
find comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah who said, ''He will 
swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from 
off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Nick.
