# HONORING SEVEN AMERICANS KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN ON DECEMBER 30, 2009
## `f9592cbbe0b22ac5bda58fcf5ae9d089`
`Ms. TSONGAS â€” 22 January 2010`

---


Ms. TSONGAS. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1009 
and to honor the seven Americans who died in the bombing that took 
place in Khost, Afghanistan, on December 30, 2009. One of the heroes 
murdered on that day was Harold E. Brown, Jr., a native of Bolton, 
Massachusetts.

Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the seven brave 
individuals who lost their lives. I extend my condolences to Harold's 
wife of 16 years, Janet, his three young children, and his parents, 
Harold and Barbara Brown, who are active and beloved members of the 
Bolton community.

As the tragic events of December 30, the failed terrorist attack on 
Christmas Day, and the shootings at Ft. Hood illustrate, there are 
radicals who wish to do us harm any way and anywhere they can. In this 
war against extremism, intelligence is our most important asset to 
prevent future attacks and to keep our country, our freedoms and our 
ideals secure.

It is the men and women of the intelligence community who sacrifice 
much to obtain this valuable resource. They are frequently separated 
from their families and risk life and limb to keep us safe, but they 
carry out their responsibilities with quiet determination and 
professionalism.

Rarely do they receive the recognition and thanks that they deserve, 
and too frequently it only comes in instances of tragedy.

Across the Korean War Veterans Memorial in Washington, DC, is the 
message, freedom is not free. The freedom we enjoy is the result of the 
sacrifices of those who serve. We are the beneficiaries of their 
courage, their sacrifice, and their vigilance; and so are countless 
people around the world. The seven brave Americans who were murdered on 
December 30 made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. It is a debt 
that we can never repay.

Madam Speaker, it is appropriate that we pass this resolution today 
to recognize and express our gratitude to the brave men and women of 
our intelligence community; to remember the tragic loss of the seven 
Americans who died on December 30 and to honor their lives; and to 
express our condolences to their families and loved ones.
