# AFGHANISTAN
## `f95fe9ac28395841630c1d9cbb2397a9`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 16 September 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. I am totally in agreement with my friend from South 
Carolina. This in fact is the lesson we should have learned and I think 
did learn in Iraq. When did the number of American casualties in Iraq 
begin to go down? It was when we sent more American troops there. 
Because the addition of American troops, and a new strategy--not just 
the numbers but a new strategy, a strategy quite similar to the new 
strategy we have in Afghanistan--protects the civilian population, 
gives them the confidence that we are not leaving. When you do that, 
something significant happens. It happened in Iraq and it will happen 
in Afghanistan. When we commit more troops, the people in the country 
decide we are not going to cut and run.

The Afghan people despise the Taliban. The progress the Taliban is 
making in controlling more land in Afghanistan is totally the result of 
violence and intimidation. The Afghan people, however, are watching us 
and wondering are we going to begin to pull back? Should they hedge 
their bets? Should they be careful not to join the fight against the 
Taliban?

If we begin to sound an uncertain trumpet--you remember that phrase 
from Scriptures: ''If the sound of the trumpet is uncertain, who will 
follow into battle?'' I will tell you one group that will not follow 
into battle if America begins to sound an uncertain trumpet in 
Afghanistan is the people of Afghanistan. We have a desire now that 
most everybody here shares. Let's break some of the Taliban away, the 
ones who are not zealots, the ones who, in a sense are foot soldiers, 
followers. They are the comparable group to the Sons of Iraq in Anbar 
Province. But when did the Sons of Iraq decide they were going to turn 
against al-Qaida? When we convinced them we were going to stay in Anbar 
and protect them.

In fact, how did we convince them? By sending more troops. It was 
after that the Iraqi security forces grew in capability, that the 
American casualties went down.

I would say to my friend, he has touched a very important point here. 
The only way we will reduce American casualties, which are now going 
up, and create an environment in which more Afghans will join the war 
against the Taliban and al-Qaida is for us to give them the confidence 
we are not going to leave. The best way we can do that and provide the 
security to do that is by sending more troops.

Incidentally, a final word and then I will yield to my friend from 
South Carolina. There are those, including my dear friend and respected 
chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator Levin, who are 
focused on sending more Americans only for training purposes, not 
combat troops. But here is something else we learned in Iraq. The fact 
is you need more than trainers to train the indigenous forces. One of 
the great tactical breakthroughs in Iraq that General McChrystal wants 
to put into effect in fact has begun in Afghanistan: There is no better 
way to train the Afghan forces than to partner them with American and 
coalition forces in Afghanistan. It is not just sending somebody to a 
school run by Americans to train them; it is having the Afghan units 
out there in the field, side by side, working with, fighting with, 
living with American soldiers that is the best source of training.

I couldn't agree with my friends from South Carolina and Arizona 
more. The situation in Afghanistan is a vital national interest. 
Everybody agrees with that. You can't listen to ADM Mike Mullen 
yesterday and decide the initiative is ours now. It is not. It is 
slipping away from us. The best way to regain the initiative is to send 
as many troops as we can. Listening to General McChrystal, a lot of 
them have to be combat troops, and to do so as quickly as possible.

I said ''the weather'' a moment ago. The winters are harsh in 
Afghanistan. That is not to say all conflict stops, but there is a 
fighting season in Afghanistan. This year, we did not have adequate 
forces there until the new wave the President, President Obama, 
deployed got there. They didn't get there until June. We were together 
in Helmut Province with GEN Larry Nickelson, an extraordinary Marine 
general, a patriot, great soldier, great fighter, great leader. Those 
Marines are turning back the tide against the Taliban there because 
they have the numbers.

And that is exactly what we have to do throughout the country. I 
thank my friend. I am glad to yield the floor to him at this time.