---
---

# None
## `f96078ef725e5cce06e73124532eba86`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 18 June 2008`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I think it's important that we realize that this is 
not going to be some kind of very narrow solution to the problems that 
the country is in now. The point is that when President Bush came into 
office, there was a pretty good economic forecast, a lot of things were 
stable, it was time to make some key investments. That did not happen, 
and the situation got dramatically worse.

The middle class has continued to get squeezed, whether it was energy 
costs, health care costs, tuition costs, everything in the 6 years in 
which the President was pushing all of his agendas. I've said this more 
than one time on this House floor. There is no need to wonder about 
what the neoconservative Republican agenda would look like, because we 
are living in it today.

All you have to do is go to the gas pump, get your health care bill, 
pay your kids' college tuition, deal with the global environment, look 
at the foreign policy of this country, the destabilization of the 
Middle East, unable to deal with China. We deal with a lot of trade 
issues, with China, with Wheatland Tube that has a facility in my 
district, a facility in your district, in imports coming in from China.

It's tough for us to advocate the administration to be hard on China, 
to take a firm stance on China, because the administration at the same 
time is borrowing money from China to finance the $12 billion a month 
for the war in Iraq.

So the foreign policy of the United States has destabilized the 
region where a lot of the oil is, and that has not helped the 
situation. Our domestic problems continue to exist because we are 
living under the President's current economic policies. The debt burden 
that has been placed on our children and grandchildren over the next 
generation was put in place, the $3 trillion borrowed, this is the 
conservative Republican agenda currently implemented.

We are trying now to take the Congress in a new direction and to move 
into alternative energy so we don't have this dependency which would 
relieve the pressure for a lot of the foreign policy issues that we are 
dealing with, to use PAYGO to pay for what we are spending here in 
Washington D.C., to try to repair this debt and eventually pare down 
the debt so that we can have a firm negotiating stance with China, 
these all fit together. We can't continue to go down this same road. At 
every instance, the New Direction Congress has changed course from the 
current administration.

But that did not stop the President from coming before the American 
people today and asking the American people to continue to go down a 
road that is a dead end, and that's drilling.

It's amazing to me, whether we are dealing with the supplemental, or 
dealing with the regular order of business here in Congress, when we 
try to push an agenda of helping the soldiers, for example, we are 
trying to get the GI Bill, which would pay for 4 years of college for 
our soldiers who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan, for free. They 
have served this country. We need an economic recovery, we need brain 
power. These young men and young women should have 3, 4 years of 
college.

But the President says, we don't have the money and turns around and 
asks for $140 billion in the supplemental to continue the war at $12 
billion a month.

Now, I don't think anyone is saying tomorrow, we are going to be able 
to pull out of Iraq. I think everyone knows that this would be a 
process. But what we are saying is why do we always have money for war, 
and then when our soldiers come back and we want to put them through 
college and reward the effort, all of a sudden the President says we 
don't have the money when he has just got done borrowing $3 trillion.

I yield to my friend.