# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `f96be5b6fef88b7e9d6bba3629d64a46`
`Mr. AKAKA â€” 15 January 2009`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I am introducing legislation which is 
drawn in large measure from S. 2969, the proposed Veterans' Health Care 
Authorization Act, as reported by the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
last Congress.

VA faces a looming shortage of health care personnel. Without 
concerted and timely action, this situation will only worsen in the 
years ahead. This is especially true as more Iraq and Afghanistan 
veterans return home injured and in need of new and specialized care. 
In order to avert this problem, VA must be able to offer competitive 
salaries, work schedules, and benefits. The provisions in the bill I am 
introducing will allow VA to recruit and retain nurses, home health 
aides, and specialty care providers.

This bill also contains measures that would improve the efficiency of 
health care delivery to veterans, including a number of pilot programs 
designed to help VA find new and innovative ways to deliver better, 
faster, and more comprehensive treatment.

Women make up an ever growing percentage of the Armed Forces. As 
such, they are also making up an ever growing percentage of the veteran 
population. While there have been efforts over the years to address the 
unique needs of women veterans, there is much more that VA might do. To 
that end, there are provisions in this bill to address current 
shortcomings and help VA better respond to the increased demand for 
care from women veterans. I particularly thank Senator Murray for her 
leadership on this issue.

One of the most troubling and difficult challenges of warfare, which 
can be seen particularly in the current conflicts in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, is diagnosing and treating those who suffer from the 
invisible wounds of war. The lack of understanding of these injuries, 
the stigma associated with them, and many other factors make effective 
treatment difficult. Last Congress, legislation I authored, the 
Veterans Mental Health and Other Care Improvements Act, was enacted as 
Public Law 110-387. This Congress, I seek to improve upon those 
advances, and to continue to provide accessible, cutting-edge care for 
those afflicted with invisible wounds. This bill would expand 
eligibility and authority for the Vet Centers to provide needed 
services, and would commission a comprehensive study on suicides among 
veterans so that we can improve efforts to prevent such tragedies.

This bill will also provide support for homeless veterans through a 
proposed series of innovative pilot programs. These programs are 
designed to significantly improve VA outreach to these veterans, in 
order to help them access the benefits and services provided by VA.

I look forward to working with all of our colleagues to bring this 
legislation to the full Senate for consideration early in this Session. 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of this bill be 
printed in the Record.