---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `f97d2d32b6f5b26ca2bf6f0354b3b36d`
`Ms. GRANGER — 25 September 2008`

---


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, consistent with the Republican 
Leadership's policy on earmarks, I submit the following justifications 
for projects I received in the FY2009 Defense Appropriations bill.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): AN/AVS-7 Day Heads-Up 
Display (DayHUD).

Amount received: $5 million.

Bill number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Aircraft Procurement, Navy.

Legal name and address of entity receiving earmark: Elbit Systems of 
America, Fort Worth Operations (EFW, Inc.), 4700 Marine Creek Parkway, 
Fort Worth, TX 76179-6969.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: This product is a day version of the 
currently fielded night Heads-Up Display for the Aviator Night Vision 
Imaging System night vision goggles. The Day HUD provides the same 
aircraft and mission performance data to the pilots as the ANVIS 
version to give them access to ''time critical'' information while also 
keeping their eyes on the target or landing zone. The system completes 
the picture for the aircrew, provides increased safety and reduces the 
likelihood of mishaps involving brown out or lack of situational 
awareness by the pilots.

There is no integration required with the product and testing is 
complete. Funding will directly procure 150 units of system hardware.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): UH-60A Rewiring Program.

Amount received: $5 million.

Bill number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Aircraft Procurement, Army.

Legal name and address of entity receiving earmark: InterConnect 
Wiring LLP 5024 west Vickery Blvd. Fort Worth, Texas 76107.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: The requiring of aging UH-60 aircraft 
will ensure a single, standardized aircraft configuration, reduce 
extensive maintenance time requirements needed to isolate electronic 
malfunctions and enhance operational safety due to the age of the wire 
within the aircraft. Each aircraft will rewire $108,333 in materials 
and $725,000 in labor to require. At a unit price of $833,333 per 
aircraft, the requested funds will rewire 6 aircraft.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): NNSA metals 
Declassification for Reuse by DoD in Armaments.

Amount received: $2.72 million.

Bill number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide.

Legal name and address of entity receiving earmark: e-PEAK Inc. 311 
Diamond Oaks Drive Weatherford, TX 76087.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: A critical Army need is lightweight and 
specialty metals to support development of advanced armors, vehicles, 
and weapon systems; however, these metals are extremely expensive. The 
DOE has a major stockpile of specialty metals recovered from 
decommissioned warheads. This program delivers a process that allows 
DOE to safely, securely, and efficiently discard these metals through a 
unique microwave melting furnace and plasma melting. These advanced 
melting technologies require additional development to scale them up to 
meet DOE's unique declassification requirements. The specialty metals 
can then be provided to the Army at significantly low costs. This 
program provides technologies that allow for the safe, secure, 
environmentally sound recovery and reuse of more than one million tons 
of discarded metals that are currently stockpiled at DOE facilities.

Finance Plan Based on Request:

Facility site selection, permitting, operational safety requirements, 
support utilities, and other required items (site staffing, training 
and DOE site requirements): $400,000

Final design, DOE approvals, construction and required certifications 
for melting systems: $2,400,000

Delivery and operational testing of systems: $600,000

Total Request: $3,400,000

The plan for the project will be adjusted according to the funding 
level in the final agreement.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): Smart Machinery Spaces 
System

Amount received: $2.4 million.

Bill number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy.

Legal name and address of entity receiving earmark: Williams Pyro 
Inc., 200 Greenleaf Street, Fort Worth, Texas.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: Shipboard machinery spaces are currently 
inspected using a costly manual process. Manual data collection and 
analyses require significant manpower, and results are often 
inconsistent. This system supports a smart sensor node, an information 
systems network, and video-based situational awareness and fire 
detection capability. Congress provided funds in FY 07 for the Smart 
Machinery Systems to develop the system which enables condition-based 
monitoring capabilities combined with improved automatic configuration 
management. This program fully supports the Navy's January 2007 Naval 
Science and Technology Strategic Plan, which one of the focus area 
include Affordability, Maintainability and Reliability. The vision of 
that focus area was to ''Reduce acquisition and lifecycle cost of Naval 
Platforms through design tools, reduced maintenance, intelligent 
diagnostics and automation.'' This program reduces maintenance and 
lifecycle costs, provides for remote monitoring of the equipment and 
allows for a reduction in manpower.

Finance Plan Based on Request:

Engineering and labor for the development and completion of the 
project: $1.9 million.

Subcontracts involving Texas A&M for engineering, testing and 
support: $980,000.

Supplies, testing facilities and travel/meetings: $120,000.

Total Request: $3,000,000.

The plan for the project will be adjusted according to the funding 
level in the final agreement.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): MK 19 Crew Served Weapons 
System trainer.



Amount received: $328,000.

Bill number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard.

Legal name and address of entity receiving earmark: Texas National 
Guard, PO Box 5218, Austin, Texas 78763.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: Acquisition of the systems, which 
provides initial and sustainment marksmanship training, gunnery and 
tactical training, and ''shoot/don't shoot training,'' will enhance the 
battle readiness of the Texas National Guard and will aid in the 
transformation of the Guard into an Operational Force. The requested 
amount ($410,000) will purchase for the Texas National Guard, 10 
trainers ($41,000 per trainer). The plan for the project will be 
adjusted according to the funding level in the final agreement.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): RC-26B Modernization.

Amount received: $7.2 million.

Bill Number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Aircraft Procurement, Air Force.

Legal name and address of requesting entity: ATK Integrated Systems, 
236 Citation Drive, Fort Worth, TX 76106.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: The RC-26B performs critical 
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) missions in support 
of national disaster response by the Department of Homeland Security 
(DHS), Customs and Border Protection (CBP), Air National Guard, and in 
direct support of Special Operations Forces in the GWOT. The Air 
National Guard (ANG) operates a fleet of eleven RC-26B aircraft that 
provide support to individual states for disaster relief and counter-
drug missions. As the demands for the RC-26Bs proven utility increased, 
non-availability of the platform due to use in GWOT operations have 
prevented ANG crews from performing their domestic assigned missions.

Special Operations Command funded the modification of five RC-26B 
aircraft--to provide ISR missions in support of deployed operations. 
With five RC-26B aircraft deployed in support of missions outside of 
the continental United States, an availability vacuum at the state 
level has occurred. The remaining six RC-26B aircraft (from 
Mississippi, Arizona, Florida, Texas, West Virginia and New York) are 
not sufficient to support the disaster relief and counter-narcotics 
missions of both the ANG and DHS/CBP.

The requested $9,000,000 will be used for concept development, 
design, integration and flight verification for one aircraft of the 
following technologies that would enhance the current Block 20 RC-26B 
performance and effectiveness. The plan for the project will be 
adjusted according to the funding level in the final agreement.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): Network Centric 
Collaborative targeting for the P-3C.

Amount received: $3.2 million.

Bill Number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Aircraft Procurement, Navy.

Legal name and address of requesting entity: L-3 Communications, 
ComCept Division, 2800 Discovery Blvd, Rockwall TX 75032.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: NCCT is an Air Force program that 
provides legacy and new ISR assets with transformational networking 
capabilities. NCCT takes advantage of existing platform sensors which 
dramatically improves the probability of detection, accuracy of 
identification, precision location, and timeliness. This integration of 
newer technologies expands the networking range, thus enabling wider 
information-sharing and obviating the need for newer sensors. CENTCOM 
endorsed this technology as one that can solve immediate operational 
needs. The integration of sensors enabled by NCCT software will provide 
a low cost, near term option for greatly enhancing US capabilities in 
Maritime Domain Awareness, Strike Support, and Undersea Warfare. The 
effect of using existing platforms and sensors as a team allows for 
target detection, location, and identification against time critical 
targets and threats, as well as support war fighting and counter-
terrorism operations abroad when integrated with US Intelligence and 
Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) systems.

Finance Plan Based on Request:

Procurement of NCCT Equipment: $250 thousand.

Design, Mission System Integration & Installation of NCCT on MPRA 
Aircraft: $2.75 million.

Labor, materials, and Support Activities: $1 million.

Total request: $4,000,000.

The plan for the project will be adjusted according to the funding 
level in the final agreement.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): Vision Integrating 
Strategies in Ophthalmology and Neurochemistry (VISION).

Amount received: $3.2 million.

Bill Number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Research, Development, Test And Evaluation, Army.

Legal name and address of requesting entity: UNT Health Science 
Center, 3500 Camp Bowie Blvd, Fort Worth, Texas 76107.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: The research performed by the VISION 
team will target the various causes and effects of visual damage 
resulting from both ocular injuries and eye exposure to the elements 
during combat operations. This research will ultimately be used to 
develop compounds and novel therapeutic strategies to more quickly 
return an injured warfighter to his unit. More significantly, the goal 
is to have the Services be able to equip warfighters and combat medical 
personnel with therapy solutions that can be (1) administered 
preventatively, (2) self-administered or (3) easily deployed and 
administered in the field. This will enable the effective delivery of 
therapies that take advantage of the narrow time window that eye 
injuries have for most effective treatment once the damage has 
occurred. In addition, the development of effective treatments for 
these conditions could save the U.S. government hundreds of millions of 
dollars annually in preservation of combat readiness, improvement of 
the visual performance of reenlisting soldiers and in reduction of 
long-term health care related costs.

Finance Plan Based on Request:

Staffing, development of compounds, instrumentation & therapeutic 
imaging: $1.2 million.

Mass spectrometry: $1.2 million.

Advance computing research: $800 thousand.

Preclinical and translational implementation: $800 thousand.

Total request: $4 million.

The plan for the project will be adjusted according to the funding 
level in the final agreement.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): Flashlight Soldier-to-
Soldier Combat Identification System.

Amount received: $5.6 million.

Bill Number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Research, Development, Test And Evaluation, Defense-Wide.

Legal name and address of requesting entity: ATR Electronics, Inc., 
109 Ridgemont Ave., San Antonio, TX 78209.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: Friendly Fire is a serious problem for 
the U.S. military and its coalition partners. Friendly Fire casualties 
occur frequently and weaken the resolve of some coalition partners. Per 
capita, U.S. Friendly Fire casualties increased 300 percent during the 
2003 invasion of Iraq compared to 1991 Desert Storm. Efforts to reduce 
Friendly Fire casualties through ''doctrine and training'' and ''Blue 
Force Tracking'' have not succeeded. The Flashlight project equips the 
soldier with rifle mounted/body worn hardware that immediately 
identifies friendly soldiers and equipment at the point of engagement. 
Funds would go toward phase 2 of the development of a bottom-up, rifle 
mounted/body worn hardware Combat ID capability that reduces U.S. and 
coalition Friendly Fire casualties and increases combat effectiveness. 
Follow-on Flashlight antennas can be mounted on platforms (tanks, etc.) 
and aircraft to create a single-system Combat ID capability that can be 
integrated into advanced communications systems (FCS). This project 
develops 10-prototype M4 rifle mounted/body worn devices for military 
testing in 18-months. The plan for the project will be adjusted 
according to the funding level in the final agreement.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): Enhanced Holographic Imager 
(EHI).

Amount received: $2.48 million.

Bill Number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Research, Development, Test And Evaluation, Army.

Legal name and address of requesting entity: Zebra Imaging, Inc., 
9801 Metric Blvd., Suite 200 Austin, TX 78758.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: This is the final phase of a three-year 
development program to reduce the size and enhance efficiency of the 
holographic imager system currently used to produce 3D imagery for the 
Army's Tactical Battlefield Visualization


program. The requested FY09 funds will be administered by the U.S. Army 
Engineering Research and Development Center (USAERDC) and will complete 
the EHI development program, with the delivery of a fully-tested 
prototype of the field-deployable Enhanced Holographic Imager. The 
Enhanced Holographic Imager (EHI) system is needed by DOD to reduce the 
time now required to provide 3D imagery to Coalition Forces in Iraq for 
intelligence and operation planning.

Finance Plan Based on Request:

Complete design of system & lab test prototype: $1.75 million.

Develop & prototype post-processor: $580 thousand.

Construct and test in-field beta prototype: $770 thousand.

Total request: $3.1 million.

The plan for the project will be adjusted according to the funding 
level in the final agreement.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): Center for Geospatial 
Intelligence & investigation (GII).

Amount received: $1.52 million.

Bill Number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Research, Development, Test And Evaluation, Navy (Marine 
Corps).

Legal name and address of requesting entity: Texas State University, 
San Marcos, Center for Geospatial Intelligence & Investigation, 601 
University Drive, San Marcos, TX 78666.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: The Center for Geospatial Intelligence & 
Investigation is conducting research of interest to the US military. 
Recognizing the need for better tools to track down insurgents 
responsible for kidnapping, maiming, and killing US Forces, allies, and 
civilians in operations in OIF and OEF, the Army sanctioned the initial 
stage of this project through the Army Topographic Engineering Center 
in FY06. This project is designed to assist in counter-IED (improvised 
explosive devices) efforts having a direct impact on increased safety 
levels and reduced risk of injury and/or death for U.S. military forces 
deployed to OIF and OEF. Funds will be used for the next phase of the 
project supported by the US Marines Systems Command. Employing a cross-
disciplinary approach, GII seeks to help military and military 
intelligence officials build more powerful investigative and analytic 
tools. This project will continue to develop computer modeling based on 
insurgent behavioral theories to help extract knowledge from 
information and data, assisting military officials in predicting 
insurgent activity areas and bases of operation. Components of the 
project will focus on suicide attacks, attacks along main supply 
routes/roads, and the use of specialized technology to depict the 
''Behavioral Decision-Making Template'' of insurgents.

Finance Plan Based on Request:

Personnel: $843,520.

Equipment: $414,300.

Other direct costs: $100,000.

Indirect costs: $635,465.

The plan for the project will be adjusted according to the funding 
level in the final agreement.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): Authorized Emergency 
Satellite Communication Packages (JISCC).

Amount received: $2.8 million.

Bill Number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations.

Bill Account: Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard.

Legal name and address of requesting entity: Texas National Guard, PO 
Box 5218, Austin, Texas 78763.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: Texas Military Forces is authorized, but 
not fully funded, for 10 Joint Incident Scene Communication Capability 
(JISCC) packages needed to support the various disaster command posts 
including JIATF HQ, each subordinate task force command post, local 
incident command posts, EOCs, and other multi-agency coordination 
centers. There are 2 JISCCa on-hand. Funding for this project would 
procure 8 authorized, but not-funded, JISCC packages required for 
disaster response. JISCC system uses DoD satellites eliminating the 
persistent shortage of funds to pay for commercial satellite service. 
This equipment fully enables the Texas National Guard Joint Inter-
Agency Task Force (JIATF) to Command and Control its Inter-Agency 
structure across the State, or out of State in support of other States 
under EMAC, best serving as DoD's lead agent for disaster response in 
Texas.

Finance Plan based on request:

Satellite emergency/interoperable communications packages (x8): 
$4,091,400111.

Transportation vehicles (x8): $311,200.

Total request: $4.403 million.

Description of matching funds: None required.

Project name (as it appears in the bill): Air Force Plant 4 (AFP 4) 
Physical Security Enhancements.

Amount received: $2.072 million.

Bill Number: FY 2009 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill.

Account: Other Procurement, Air Force.

Legal name and address of requesting entity: Lockheed Martin 
Aeronautics Company, 1 Lockheed Blvd., Fort Worth, TX 76108.

Description of how the money will be spent and why the use of federal 
taxpayer funding is justified: Air Force Plant 4 is a critical 
Government Owned Contractor Operated (GOCO) Industrial facility 
dedicated to the design, development, and manufacture of tactical 
fighter aircraft systems, including the F-16, F-22 and the F-35. 
Protection of this facility, its human resources, and its unique 
manufacturing capabilities from determined threats is required in order 
to reduce the potential for disruption to these critical DoD programs. 
This project will accomplish the following Physical Security 
improvements at Air Force Plant No. 4, located in Fort Worth, Texas:

(1) Provide Flight Line Security Enhancements, Air Force Plant 4 
(AFP4)--Project will install an inner perimeter fence, and closed 
circuit video monitoring systems, to restrict unauthorized access to 
the AFP 4 aircraft operating areas (flight line, run stations, fueling 
areas). These improvements are required to reduce the security and 
safety risk to F-16 and F-35 aircraft undergoing final checkout and 
flight operations. AFP 4 flight line security has been identified as 
vulnerable during various Government reviews and assessments. $970K

(2) Provide Security Enhancements, Building 200--Engineering & Office 
Bldg, Air Force Plant 4 (AFP 4)--Project will modify standoff distances 
or install protective barriers on the north, south and east approaches 
to Building 200. These modifications are required to meet DoD 
recommended antiterrorism standards for existing facilities. Bldg. 200 
security deficiencies have been identified during various Government 
reviews and assessments. $1.461M

(3) Install Perimeter Vehicle Barrier System, Air Force Plant 4 (AFP 
4)--Project will construct a cable vehicle barrier system in vulnerable 
areas along the perimeter of the government owned manufacturing 
facility. This installation will more effectively deter a determined 
threat to these critical facilities while augmenting the overall 
hardening of the common perimeter for both AFP 4 and the adjacent Fort 
Worth NAS-Joint Reserve Base. $3.124M

The plan for the project will be adjusted according to the funding 
level in the final agreement.

Description of matching funds: None required.
