# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `f98bf57ee5d3ac22f156f1c42b9d7be8`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 28 July 2010`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4899, 
the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2010.

This Supplemental Appropriations Act provides funds to meet the needs 
of our troops abroad and our families at home. It provides emergency 
flood relief for those recently washed out of their homes, improves 
Federal mine safety for those risking their lives to get energy from 
American soil, and supports disabled veterans who have given so much to 
our nation.

This funding will reduce injuries and increase recovery in the wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. It will reduce injuries by replacing 
vulnerable military transports with mine-resistant ambush-protected 
vehicles, and provide ballistic protection for helicopters that are in 
the line of fire. Even with this additional protection, injury is 
inevitable, but this bill enhances the healing mission. It funds field 
medical equipment to help heal those who are injured in battle and it 
funds health care for soldiers when they come home. Veterans exposed to 
Agent Orange, and their survivors, will finally receive the disability 
payments they deserve. The promises kept in this bill fulfill our 
commitments to soldiers today and our veterans from past conflicts.

Unfortunately, this version of the bill leaves out necessary funding 
for priorities here at home. Our children need teachers. Our 
neighborhoods need first responders. I agree that ignoring the needs of 
our states and local communities is wrong. However, we cannot make that 
right by ignoring the needs of our troops, our citizens in the Gulf, 
and by leaving our citizens to face hurricane season with no 
possibility of help from FEMA. Without this funding, the President can 
still declare disaster areas. But those declarations need to be backed 
up with the people, the expertise, and the funds provided in this bill. 
The need to support our troops and keep them safe will not go away 
either.

The funding in this bill will assist America in our shared, but 
fragile recovery. Forest lands damaged by natural disaster can be 
restored. Coast Guard helicopters damaged in the line of duty can be 
replaced. Fisheries in the Gulf Coast can be helped towards recovery 
and restoration.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting ''yes'' on 
this bill.
