---
---

# CODY GRATER POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `f9aee9858c963cc4e6de6d25323d0068`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, as a member of the House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, I am pleased to join my colleagues, particularly the 
gentlewoman from the Sunshine State of Florida, in consideration of 
H.R. 5168, which names the postal facility in Brooksville, Florida, 
after a fallen hero, Army Specialist Cody Grater.

Introduced on January 29, 2008, H.R. 5168 is offered by Congresswoman


Ginny Brown-Waite, Representative of Florida's Fifth Congressional 
District, and is cosponsored by the State's entire congressional 
delegation. Congresswoman Ginny Brown-Waite's measure, H.R. 5168, was 
reported from the Oversight Committee on February 26, 2008, by voice 
vote.

This morning's postal naming bill honoring Specialist Grater brings 
to life the tragic yet heroic story of another American soldier who 
gave his life in service to this great country of ours.

A native of Spring Hill, Florida, Specialist Cody Grater was 
tragically killed on July 29, 2007, when his guard position was struck 
by a rocket-propelled grenade near Baghdad in Iraq. Specialist Grater 
was only 20 years old when he lost his life in the line of duty as a 
member of the 407th Brigade Support Battalion, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 
82nd Airborne Division out of Fort Bragg, North Carolina.

The son of Anita Lewis and Larry Decker, Cody Grater joined the Army 
in April of 2006, and for his service, although short-lived, he has 
been awarded the Bronze Star Medal and the Purple Heart. It is reported 
that during his burial service at Florida National Cemetery in 
Bushnell, Florida, the streets were lined for miles with well-wishers 
and people waving flags, saluting and crying in tribute to a true 
American hero.

Mr. Speaker, let us also join that host of well-wishers, loved ones 
and friends of Specialist Cody Grater and pass H.R. 5168, designating 
the Cortez Boulevard Post Office Building in Brooksville, Florida, in 
his honor.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.