# INCREASING THE STATUTORY LIMIT ON THE PUBLIC DEBT
## `f9b04c0498d543975fa52760f17e7bad`
`Mr. DORGAN — 22 January 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, yesterday President Obama made some 
recommendations that have caused quite a stir, especially on the 
morning shows on television today. The President suggested something 
that is called radical by some of the commentators: he suggested that 
banks--commercial banks, FDIC-insured banks, insured by the American 
taxpayers--should not be essentially gambling or investing in risky 
instruments, risky securities on their own proprietary accounts. It has 
been going on for a long time. This President said let's stop that. We 
have seen such a financial wreck, in which our economy was steered 
right into the ditch, where something like $15 trillion of value had 
been lost by American households.

The President said we need to make some fundamental changes. One 
change, which isn't even, in my judgment, a significant change--at 
least not in the context of what must be done and should be done--is to 
limit the ability of FDIC-insured financial institutions to invest in, 
speculate in, and buy and trade derivatives on their own proprietary 
accounts. That should not have been going on at all.

Fifteen years ago, I wrote the cover story for the Washington Monthly 
magazine on this very subject. The title of the article was ''Very 
Risky Business.'' I talked then about how FDIC-insured banks in this 
country were trading on their own proprietary accounts in derivatives--
$16 trillion of value in derivatives at that time. They were trading on 
their own proprietary accounts, which puts taxpayers at risk. They 
might as well put a Keno table or a craps table in their lobby. It is 
flatout gambling. The President said yesterday: Let's have legislation 
that stops that. I agree.

The President said something else that is very important: Let's limit 
the size of financial organizations that are ''too big to fail.'' We 
have a category in this capitalistic system of ours called ''too big to 
fail''--a category that is managed by the Federal Reserve Board. They 
have a list of which institutions are too big to fail. I thought this 
system of ours--capitalism--is that you succeed or fail based on your 
own merit. That is not the case. We have now witnessed in the last year 
and a half which institutions are not allowed to fail.

We have people who go to work every day to a business they started 
with their own capital. They and their family have invested in a shoe 
store or a hardware store or gas station, and they open the door in the 
morning and they are open for business that day and the risk is all 
theirs. By the way, they are allowed to fail, and many have done so 
during this economic downturn, but not the biggest financial 
interests--they are too big to fail. That is called no-fault 
capitalism. They can gamble in their lobby, and the American taxpayer 
will pay the bill. That is what has been going on. This President 
says--and he is right--if you are too big to fail, you are too big. 
Let's begin limiting the size.

This morning, I listened to some of the commentators have an 
apoplectic seizure. They said that if we cannot be bigger and bigger, 
how do we compete with the Europeans? That is exactly what we heard 
10/1/2/ years ago now--when the Congress passed legislation that took 
apart the protections put into place after the Great Depression. This 
legislation gave free rein to this unbelievable orgy of speculation in 
high finance that led this country right into the ditch, led this 
country's economy into a colossal wreck. The result of all of that has 
been catastrophic for the American people. The result of all of that 
has been trillions of dollars of lost value for American families and 
an unbelievable unemployment problem--people by the millions losing 
their jobs, their homes, and losing hope.

The President made two recommendations yesterday, which I support. 
You would think he was suggesting somehow that he is going to 
completely take apart the American free enterprise system. That is 
absolutely absurd. I decided I wanted to give a little bit of history 
this morning because it is so easy for people to forget. Let's 
understand how we got to this place and what caused these 
recommendations to be made.

Alan Greenspan, former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, was 
involved in all of this. I know he wrote a book later implying he was 
exploring the surface of the Moon while all this was going on, but he 
wasn't. He was Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. He had a 
responsibility to provide oversight and to rein in these excesses, and 
he didn't. Here is what he said in testimony before the Congress:




 I made a mistake in presuming that the self-interests of 


 organizations, specifically banks and others, were best 


 capable of protecting their own shareholders and their equity 


 in the firms.


That notion that people will behave in their own self-interests and 
protect the shareholders and our country was pretty unbelievable 
because this occurred at the same time that the Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Board itself had responsibilities 
to provide a regulatory oversight to what was going on in our financial 
system.

At the same time that was the case, and they were doing nothing, we 
had new people come to Washington, DC, in the aftermath of the passage 
of the disastrous bill in 1999, the Financial Services Modernization 
Act, to be regulators at the Securities and Exchange


Commission, the CFTC--all of those organizations. People came here to 
assume those jobs, and they were boasting that they would be willfully 
blind: Let's take these regulatory jobs, and we promise not to look, we 
promise to close our eyes, and by the way, we are business friendly, so 
do what you want. It doesn't matter to us.

In fact, we have circumstances where people came to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission with Mr. Madoff's issue going on, and they 
said: This guy is running a Ponzi scheme, a scam. We had people show up 
to the SEC and say: Investigate this, it is a massive scam. The SEC 
couldn't even investigate it when they had people saying, here is what 
is happening. It is unbelievable. During that entire time period, we 
had regulators, starting with the Federal Reserve Board and Mr. 
Greenspan and others, in regulatory capacities who boasted about not 
being willing to regulate. The result is that big financial firms in 
this country, and a lot of others, were engaged in an unbelievable orgy 
of greed.

Let me show a little of what was going on. The Fed should have been 
attentive to this. It was their responsibility, among others. We all 
see these kinds of ads when we wake up and brush our teeth in the 
morning if we have a television set on. Here is one where Countrywide 
Mortgage said:




 Do you have less than perfect credit? Do you have late 


 mortgage payments? Have you ever been denied by other 


 lenders? Call us. We would like to loan you money. If you are 


 a bad credit risk, call us.


How can that work? It didn't work. This company went bankrupt. The 
owner of the company is now under investigation, at long last. He went 
away with about $200 million, I believe. He left the party with a 
couple hundred million dollars. These advertisements saying: If you 
have bad credit, come to us--this is the biggest mortgage company, not 
some fly-by-night company.

This one is an Internet company. It is called 
speedybadcreditloans.com. Isn't that great? What a country. What a 
system. Apparently, somebody has a business model to advertise speedy 
bad credit loans. It says:




 Bad credit, no problem. No credit, no problem. Bankruptcy, 


 no problem. Get guaranteed bad credit personal loans now.


Does it surprise anybody, having watched over a decade of this, that 
this collapses?

I won't go through all of them.

Here is Millennium Mortgage:




 Twelve months, no mortgage payments. That's right. We will 


 give you the money to make your first 12 payments if you call 


 in the next 7 days. We pay it for you. Our loan program may 


 reduce your current monthly payment by as much as 50 percent 


 and allow you no payments for the first 12 months. Call us 


 today.


Too good to be true? Get a loan from these guys and they will make 
the payment for you. They didn't tell you that they will put that 
around the back side of the loan and wrap it around higher interest 
rates.

This is Zoom Credit:




 Credit approval is seconds away. Get on the fast track at 


 Zoom Credit. At the speed of light, Zoom Credit will 


 preapprove you for a car loan, home loan, or a credit card, 


 even if your credit is in the tank. Zoom Credit is like money 


 in the bank. Zoom Credit specializes in credit repair and 


 debt consolidation, too. Bankruptcy, slow credit, no credit, 


 who cares?


We have all heard these for a long period of time and wondered: How 
does this work? What kind of business model is this? It was not a 
business model. It was a scam and a scheme that undermined the American 
economy and went on under the nose of, yes, Mr. Greenspan and so many 
others who had promised us they were interested in being regulators. 
The list goes on and on.

Let me go back to 1999. We were told in this Chamber--and I was here 
then--we were told: America has to modernize its financial system, for 
if we do not, the Europeans and others are going to win this debate and 
win the economic competition. So we have to modernize. The things that 
were put in place after the Great Depression were probably important at 
some point but no longer necessary. We now have Mr. Greenspan 
protecting us and others. It is a sophisticated system. We need to be 
able to compete.

They said: We need to have a financial modernization system to allow 
very large holding companies to put together all the financial 
systems--investment banks, commercial banks, real estate, and 
securities operations. By the way, if we can do all that, we can create 
one-stop financial shopping for the American people.

I stood on the floor of the Senate at great length in 1999 and 
opposed this. I know it is a little cheesy probably to quote yourself, 
but I do want to provide some description of what concerned me prior to 
the passage of this legislation.

Here are some of the things I said at that point. I said:




 I will bet one day somebody is going to look back at this 


 and they are going to say: How on Earth could we have thought 


 it made sense to allow the banking industry to concentrate, 


 through merger and acquisition, to become bigger and bigger 


 and bigger, far more firms in the category of too big to 


 fail? How did we think that was going to help this country?


That was May 6, 1999.

The same day I said:




 I say to the people who own banks: If you want to gamble, 


 go to Las Vegas. If you want to trade in derivatives, God 


 bless you. Do it with your own money. Do not do it through 


 deposits that are guaranteed by the American people and by 


 deposit insurance.


The same day I said:




 This bill--


The Financial Services Modernization Act--



 will, in my judgment, raise the likelihood of future massive 


 taxpayer bailouts. It will fuel the consolidation and mergers 


 in the bank and financial services industry at the expense of 


 customers, farm businesses, family farmers, and others.


I said:




 I think it is a fundamental mistake to decide to repeal 


 Glass-Steagall and allow banks and all of their financial 


 industries to merge into a smorgasbord of financial services. 


 Those who were around to vote to bail out the failed savings 


 and loan industry, $500 billion of taxpayers' money, are they 


 going to want to be around 10, 15 years from now when we see 


 bailouts of hedge funds putting banks at risk? Or how about 


 banks not just bailing out hedge funds, but banks having 


 ownership of hedge funds?


I said: We also have another doctrine at the Federal Reserve Board 
called too big to fail.




 Remember that term ''too big to fail''? They cannot be 


 allowed to fail because the consequences to the economy are 


 catastrophic and therefore these banks are too big to fail. 


 That is no-fault capitalism. Does the Federal Reserve care 


 about that? Apparently not.



 Fusing together the idea of banks which requires not just 


 safety and soundness to be successful but the perception of 


 safety and soundness with other inherently risky speculative 


 activity is, in my judgment, unwise.


Finally--these are about four or five speeches I gave in 1999:




 We will, in 10 years' time, look back and say: We should 


 not have done that because we forgot the lessons of the past.


So here we are, trillions and trillions of dollars. There have been, 
we believe, $11 trillion or so lent, spent or committed by the Federal 
Government to try to keep afloat some of the largest financial firms in 
our country because they did what they wanted to do. They engaged in 
unbelievable amounts of risk.

I showed the examples of advertising to people who come to get 
mortgages when they had bad credit. That was not just people who had 
bad credit. People who had existing loans were enticed by these 
companies that said: Are you paying 7 percent or 8 or 9 percent 
interest? Come to us. We want to give you a loan in which you do not 
have to pay the first 12 months. Come to us. We are going to give you 
what we call a no-doc loan. You do not even have to document your 
income to us. Come to us. We will give you a liar's loan. They did not 
call it a liar's loan, but that is a no-doc loan. Come to us. We will 
give you a loan where you do not pay any of the interest. We will give 
a loan where you do not pay any of the interest or any of the 
principal. All these were entreaties to people to come to these 
companies and redo their mortgages.

What happened to these mortgages when they were put together? They 
wrapped them into a security, a mortgage security, and then the 
mortgage company, Countrywide, for example, would sell it. They would 
sell it perhaps to a hedge fund or an investment bank. It was rated as 
a security. By the way, most of them were rated triple A. The ones that 
went bad were rated triple A.

What happened was those who placed the mortgages no longer had the 
risk because they sold the risk to others. They sold it to hedge funds, 
investment banks. All the brokers making money,


the people putting out the mortgages at the bottom, they were making 
$5,000, $10,000, $25,000 in bonuses, brokers' fees. The mortgage 
companies were awash in cash.

I mentioned Countrywide's CEO left with a couple hundred million 
dollars, now under investigation, by the way. The hedge funds were 
making massive amounts of money. They could not count it fast enough. 
Just before the economy collapsed, the highest earner in the country 
was a hedge fund manager who earned $3.6 billion--$3.6 billion. Think 
about that person coming home from work and the spouse says: How are 
you doing? I am doing pretty well; $300 million a month. By the way, I 
am only paying 15 percent income tax because I get a special deal. I 
pay a 15-percent rate. Nobody else does. I get to pay some of the 
lowest income tax rates in America. These folks do because they have a 
deal called carried interest. They were all making money, all awash in 
cash, giant bonuses, bonuses that were unreal--$15 million, $20 million 
a year, some of the folks who were running the security agencies, some 
of the salespeople, and others in these investment banks.

By the way, all these institutions would have collapsed and failed. 
Even the ones that this morning are reporting record profits, they were 
about to collapse were it not for the American people who, through 
their government, saved them.

Now they are willing to complain about everything, and they are 
ramping up a huge effort in this town to prevent any effort to change 
the way things were. This President has said: Let's decide, at least, 
to stop the pernicious practice of having FDIC-insured banks trading in 
derivatives and other risky instruments on their own proprietary 
accounts. I think that is nuts to allow that to continue, and this 
President is right to try to stop it. They are even now gathering an 
army to try to oppose it.

This issue of too big to fail, the President is right about that, 
absolutely right.

This shows the house of cards. We have all seen it. We saw it 
collapsed or nearly collapsed. Were it not for the Congress, the 
President, the American people in backstopping these largest investment 
banks, they would be gone. Now, all of a sudden, they are reporting 
record profits and are on the edge and verge of providing record 
bonuses at a time when a whole lot of folks are in lines trying to get 
to a soup kitchen or in lines trying to find a job.

The President of the Dallas Federal Reserve Board, in an editorial 
review in the Dallas Morning News, said:




 Too bill to fail is not a policy. It's a problem. Too big 


 to fail means too big.


I am glad he said that. I say that. I am glad he said that. He is 
president of the Dallas Federal Reserve Board.

Joseph Stiglitz--I believe he was a Nobel Prize winner--said:




 We have much to gain by breaking up these behemoths.


Talking about the large financial institutions.




 We need to begin now the admittedly gargantuan task of 


 breaking out their commingled activities.


There has been discussion in the last couple days about Paul Volcker, 
former Federal Reserve Board Chairman. I had an opportunity to meet 
with him in the last several weeks. Paul Volcker has spoken very 
strongly in support of the policy the President has now embraced. Paul 
Volcker says:




 I would exclude from commercial banking institutions 


 ownership or sponsorship of hedge funds and private equity 


 funds. So should, in my view, a heavy volume of proprietary 


 trading with its inherent risks.


It is common sense for us to begin to shut down those kinds of 
activities.

Let me quickly say, I understand the need for financial institutions. 
I understand that. It is a very important part of this country's 
economy. But I also understand, having studied economics and taught 
economics ever so briefly, that we have in this country, for 200 years, 
had a contest about who rules the roost--those who produce or those who 
finance production. I am telling you, in recent decades, those who 
finance production have had an unbelievable amount of influence in this 
country. I must say I do not think it contributes one thing to this 
country's economy to have big financial institutions trading synthetic 
derivatives.

Does anyone know what a synthetic derivative is? A derivative is 
something that derives value from something else. Presumably, whatever 
the value on the front end or something elsewhere has some value, 
something that is tangible. A synthetic derivative is wagering, 
gambling, a derivative that is created with nothing on either side of 
it, except you are making a wager or a bet. That is going on in this 
country with respect to big financial institutions. It has in the past, 
aggressively. That is where they made a lot of money. It continues to 
go on to this day, and it makes no sense.

Does anybody think that contributes very much to this economy? It 
does not. The fact is, it darn near ruined this economy with that 
unbelievable amount of speculation, starting right down at the broker 
placing loans that should not have been placed that created the 
subprime scandal and all the way up with credit default swaps and CDOs 
and synthetic derivatives and all these issues.

A former colleague once described investment banks by saying 
investment banking is to productive enterprise like mud wrestling is to 
the performing arts. I do not put it quite that way. But his point was 
a whole lot of what goes on is pretty worthless. A whole lot of what 
can go on and should go on is very important in investment banking. 
That is the part of our banking structure that provides loans in 
riskier categories. You put loans out there to businesses with ideas 
and so on. That is very important. Community banks are very important. 
Commercial FDIC-insured banks are important. Investment banks are 
important.

My point is not to suggest that our economy can exist without them. 
That is not the case. But I wish to make a very important point. You 
look at the heyday of production in this country. I am talking about 
when our manufacturing plants were humming, when we were turning 
products out, the best in the world. We were expanding the middle 
class. We were putting men and women in factories with good jobs that 
paid well, with benefits.

Look at that period of time in this country and ask yourself: Under 
what kind of conditions did that exist? It existed before all these 
changes were made to the financing system of this country that let the 
finance industries decide to coagulate and combine and create these 
behemoth organizations with so-called firewalls that turned out to be 
made of tissue paper.

People suggested somehow we were old-fashioned prior to 1999 and we 
needed to modernize to compete with somebody else to allow all our 
financial systems to come together, to merge, to get bigger, to engage 
in all these activities and create unbelievably exotic instruments, 
instruments that many of those who trade cannot even explain, thought 
that was somehow essential to the economic health of this country?

The economic health of this country was much better prior to the 
enactment of those changes. I did not vote for those changes I just 
described. I stood on the floor and fought like the devil against them. 
Eight of us in the Senate voted no on the Financial Services 
Modernization Act. Eight voted no. The fact is, it set this country up 
for an unbelievable fall.

So now here we are. The question is, What next? Where do we go from 
here? I understand, in this country, it is reasonable for every 
interest group to organize to support their vested interests. I 
understand that completely. But I also understand there is a higher 
purpose and a much larger issue for the American people and for our 
future.

What kind of future do we want? What kinds of activities, what kinds 
of things can we do to put our country back on track, to restart the 
economic engine, to put people back on payrolls once again? There is 
nothing we can do in this Chamber that is much more important, as far 
as I am concerned, than finding a way to create jobs to put people back 
to work. There is no social program that is as important as a good job 
that pays well and allows people to take care of their families. That 
is just a fact, and we have seen in this country how you expand the 
middle class--with good jobs that pay well.


I am going to speak later in this next couple of months again about 
the issue of trade. I have written a book about that subject, but I am 
going to speak at greater length about it because, in the middle of an 
economic downturn, when we talk about jobs, if we are hemorrhaging jobs 
once again outside of


this country in search of 50-cent-an-hour labor, and we have people 
lining up here looking for work, that doesn't work for me. That is a 
lot like filling a bathtub with the drain open. So there are a lot of 
things that are elements in this.

What I wanted to talk about this morning was to say that it is not a 
coincidence we have ended up at this intersection in deep financial 
trouble trying to find a way to see if we can rebuild the economy, to 
start putting people back to work again. It is not a surprise we have 
wound up here, anybody who watched what happened with the creation of 
bubbles and unbelievable speculation that was going on, and the massive 
amount of money ricocheting around and the creation of exotic financial 
instruments and no regulation at all, with people in regulatory 
authority who covered their eyes, and the head of the Fed, who actually 
was a cheerleader for all of it, who said: We don't need to regulate 
hedge funds or regulate derivatives. I oppose all of that. It isn't a 
surprise to us that this thing collapsed. It certainly isn't to me. The 
question is: How do we set it right?

This President--though I don't agree with him on everything--
inherited the biggest economic wreck since the Great Depression. That 
is a plain fact. Had he gone to sleep from January, when he was 
inaugurated, and done nothing until today, there was going to be a $1.3 
trillion budget deficit. That is what he walked into the White House 
and assumed. It is not just this financial situation, this is most of 
it, but we went to war and decided not to pay for a penny of it. We 
sent young men and women to fight and die and risk their lives day 
after day after day in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere, and we decided 
we weren't going to pay for one penny of it.

Some of us in the Senate, by the way, said we ought to at least find 
a way to pay for some of this cost. We are going to send kids to fight 
and risk their lives, and we don't have the courage to begin to pay for 
it? We went 8 years and didn't pay for a penny. Every bit of it went to 
the debt. To those of us who said let's pay for some of it, the last 
President said: If you do, and you pass that bill, I will veto it. I 
don't intend to allow for that at all. So that is another part of this.

Look, this country knows better. The American people know better. 
That is not a policy that works.

I talked yesterday about the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, 
Mr. Bernanke. I did not speak ill of him, I mean, despite the fact I 
think he has some ownership of these issues as well. He was part of the 
economic team at the Federal Reserve Board as well. I indicated 
yesterday, and I just want to make the point, his nomination is coming 
up, and I indicated I was not going to vote in favor of the nomination. 
When he decided to open the lending window at the Federal Reserve Board 
for the first time in the history of our country to investment banks, I 
didn't criticize him for it. I wasn't sure whether it was necessary, 
but I didn't criticize. We were in the middle of a very difficult time. 
But when he decided to do that, he put the American taxpayers' funds at 
risk.

We waited, and I and a group of nine other Senators wrote him a 
letter about 6 months ago and said: All right. Now we want to 
understand who came to that window and how much money did they get and 
what were the terms. Who did you give the money to? Who has our money?

He wrote back to us and said: I don't intend to tell you that. I 
don't intend to tell the Congress, and I don't intend to tell the 
American people, despite the fact that he said transparency is a big 
issue for him. Apparently not on this issue.

So I don't think the Congress should proceed with his nomination 
until he tells us what was the consequence of opening the loan window 
at the Federal Reserve Board to investment banks for the first time in 
history.

Well, Mr. President, I see my colleague from Kansas is here and would 
like to speak, perhaps. This is a long and tortured discussion about 
this country, its finances, and its future. There is plenty of 
criticism to go around. I have had kind of a belly full of standing in 
the Senate and hearing about President Obama and socialism and that 
sort of thing. The fact is, as I said, he inherited the biggest mess 
since the Great Depression, and had he done nothing, the budget deficit 
was going to be $1.3 trillion. So he is trying to do some things that 
will set this country back on track.

We have gone through almost a lost decade in terms of smart, 
effective, good public policies that invest in this country's future. 
It has set us back a lot. What we need to do now, it seems to me, is to 
try to see if we can't find a way that what both political parties 
offer to this country can be brought together, to links arms and try to 
lift up this country.

We see almost every single day people sawing away and ratcheting away 
about what is wrong with the country. I can spend a lot of time talking 
about what is wrong with America. But there is a whole lot right about 
this country, and it deserves, in my judgment, a lot more cooperation 
than I have seen in the Senate. It deserves the best of what both 
political parties have to offer America rather than the worst of each. 
I hope in the next 6 or 8 months we can find ways to ask people of both 
political parties to decide to stand up for tough things--for things 
that are going to require some courage and that will restart this 
economic engine, put America back on track, and try to make certain 
what has happened to us in the last couple of years will never happen 
again.

Most importantly, we need to give people an understanding that their 
future can be better than the past. We need to restore confidence. It 
is hard for people to have confidence watching the proceedings in this 
Senate. I understand that. But confidence is everything. If people are 
confident about the future, they do the things that manifest that 
confidence and that expand this country's economy. That is just a fact. 
If they are not confident about the future, they do things that 
contract the economy--they defer and delay the kinds of things they 
would otherwise do to expand the economy.

I hope in the near future we can find a way to create some jobs 
initiatives to put people back to work more quickly. But there are just 
a lot of issues that confront us, and I wanted today especially to talk 
about the two things this President mentioned yesterday, both of which 
are so right and so important, both of which this town will organize to 
oppose.

The first is asking or deciding or telling FDIC-insured banks: You 
can't be investing and trading risky instruments on your own 
proprietary accounts and putting the American people at risk any 
longer. You can't do that anymore. That is not radical; it is right and 
it is long overdue. I wrote the first article about that 15 years ago 
as a cover story for the Washington monthly magazine titled ''Very 
Risky Business.''

Second is the issue of too big to fail. If anybody in this Chamber 
wonders whether we ought to do something about too big to fail, go to 
any town cafe in this country and sit around and ask folks whether they 
think this capitalistic system works well when you say to almost 
everybody else: You risk your savings to start a business, and if you 
don't make it, tough luck. You are on your own. But, by the way, we 
have some big financial interests that can make record profits, pay the 
highest bonuses in history, and we have decided they can't fail. We 
have a special class for them. We will open loan windows at the Fed, we 
will lend or make $11 trillion available to them if they need it. We 
will do anything to prevent them from failing because they are too big 
to fail.

That is no-fault capitalism. That is not what I believe to be the 
American way. That is something this President wants to change and 
something I support very strongly.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.