---
---

# IRAQ
## `f9d7fcc1436b03d714b8de12203d364b`
`Mr. DODD — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, let me commend my colleague from the State 
of Washington for her comments and her views. I associate myself with 
many of the things she expressed in the Senate. I congratulate her for 
her words, her passion, and her strong feelings about where we stand 
today on this issue.

Let me also commend the Democratic leader for his efforts to engage 
in what is probably the single most important debate this Senate could 
possibly be engaged in. There are other very important matters at home 
and around the globe--but everyone would agree, regardless of your 
views on policy, that the issue of Iraq and where we stand and the 
effort by the President to increase the number of troops on the ground 
in Iraq, particularly to place them in the large, highly densely 
populated urban areas of Iraq, is one of the most serious issues facing 
our country.

We have had a series of serious and thought-provoking hearings 
conducted by Chairman Biden of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
over the last number of weeks on this issue, with people who represent 
a variety of ideological perspectives. Yet without fear of 
contradiction, I believe the overwhelming majority of the witnesses who 
have appeared before that committee have expressed serious reservations 
about this escalation, this surge, placing some 21,000 of our young men 
and women into Baghdad to try and act as a referee in what we all admit 
today is clearly a civil war.

Having this debate is important. I wish to take, if I can, the few 
minutes allotted to me to express my concerns about the process, my 
concerns about the surge, and my concerns about the overall direction 
of the policy in Iraq. There is not a lot of time to do that, but let 
me share some thoughts.

First of all, I believe that every Member in this Chamber, regardless 
of his or her view on the issue before the Senate regarding Iraq, would 
do everything he or she could to make sure that our brave men and women 
in uniform, serving in harm's way, would receive everything they could 
possibly need to defend themselves. That ought not to be a debating 
point. I know of no one in this Senate who feels otherwise. And the 
fact that we have to have some discussion about this very point is a 
reflection, I think, of what has gone wrong in this debate already.

In fact, I point out that over the last 4 years or so, there have 
been amendments offered by those of us here to provide different 
additional resources, such as for body armor, because we felt our 
troops were not getting what they needed. There has been significant 
discussion here in the wake of testimony offered by our senior military 
leaders about what has happened to the combat readiness of our troops 
as a result of our failure to continue to provide the kind of equipment 
and support they deserved over the years. Certainly what has happened 
to veterans coming back has also been the subject of debate. But, 
nonetheless, I believe most Members here, if not all Members here, 
believe our troops deserve the kind of support they ought to have when 
they are serving in harm's way.

And so, the debate is not whether you support our troops. The debate 
is whether the policy direction the President wishes to lead us in is 
the right one. That is a debate which ought to occur in this Chamber. 
Frankly, in my view, it ought to be a debate that resolves around at 
least a legislative vehicle that might have some meaning to it, some 
bite, some teeth, some reality, some accountability.

My leaders know I have strong reservations about a sense-of-the-
Senate debate. Now, normally, we have sense-of-the-Senate resolutions 
when there is a consensus that develops. Normally, sense-of-the-Senate 
resolutions are offered around matters that are noncontroversial and we 
wish to express ourselves regarding these matters, so we all sign on or 
virtually everyone signs on.

I would say if, in fact, the goal here was to get 70 or 80 Members of 
this Chamber--Republicans and Democrats--to sign on to a proposition 
that said we think the surge and escalation is the wrong thing to be 
doing, then the vehicle of a sense-of-the-Senate resolution would have 
value. But I would suggest here we are into the second day of this 
debate and we cannot even decide what sense-of-the-Senate resolution we 
want to debate.

So if you are sitting out there watching this Chamber at this moment, 
in terms of where we ought to be going and what the effect of what we 
are about to do is, it is rather confusing, to put it mildly, as to 
where we stand in all of this. We cannot even decide what sense-of-the-
Senate resolutions to bring up. If we are going to have a debate around 
here that is meaningful, why not debate something that is meaningful?

So my concerns are, in many ways, that given this moment in time, 
before these young men and women are placed in harm's way--because I 
know full well, after a quarter of a century here, once they are on the 
ground, once they are in place, the debate changes. The debate changes. 
So if we are truly concerned about dealing with the surge and 
escalation, then I believe we ought to be engaging in a debate that has 
some meaningful outcomes when it comes to the decision of whether we go 
forward.

I, for one, would like to see a new authorization come to this body 
to be debated. The resolution on which we are operating today is one 
that was crafted 5 years ago. It was fundamentally linked to weapons of 
mass destruction and the conduct of Saddam Hussein. The first argument 
was, of course, a fiction. There were no weapons of mass destruction. 
And the second argument is no longer viable. Saddam Hussein is gone.

Today, we are being asked to place men and women in uniform in the 
middle of a civil war. It seems to me that if the President of the 
United States wants that to be a policy endorsed by the American people 
through the actions of this body, then we ought to be voting on a 
matter that says this is something we agree with and go forward. That 
would have some meaning to it, it seems to me. If we rejected it, then 
the President would have a strong answer from the Congress about 
whether we are about to continue to finance


and support that activity--again, not undercutting the needs of our 
troops in harm's way but a legitimate debate about a real issue that 
requires Members to stand up and vote yes or no.

I realize I am in sort of a minority of one or two here who believes 
the vehicles we are choosing to debate over the next several days, if, 
in fact, the debate goes on, are ones that in the final analysis are 
nothing more than really message proposals. If we are highly divided 
over which one to bring up, what is the message, in effect, if we 
cannot even decide which vehicles we want to choose to discuss?

Regarding the surge itself and regarding the Warner-Levin or Levin-
Warner proposal, I have some problems with the language of that 
proposal. It essentially abdicates the power of the purse. It calls for 
selective diplomacy in the region instead of engaging all of Iraq's 
neighbors. The language opposing the surge is weak to the point of 
being nonexistent. And there is language that suggests that nothing in 
this resolution ought to imply a call for redeployment--something I 
wholeheartedly believe we should be pursuing in a phased manner.

But those are my concerns about it, both in terms of the process and 
the language under consideration. I realize other Members do not have 
those problems. I respect that. But those are my concerns.

Now, regarding the surge itself, again this has been stated by others 
who have examined this proposal in great detail, including our senior 
military people and senior diplomats. As I said a moment ago, in 
testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, they have 
spoken eloquently about their concerns that this proposal does nothing 
but contribute to the chaos that reins in Iraq.

There are some 6 million people who live in the city of Baghdad. To 
suggest we are going to send 17,000 or 18,000 service men and women 
into a city of 6 million, where there are at least 23 militias along 
with insurgents, Baathists, hardened criminals, and possibly some al-
Qaida elements, and that we are going to sort this out in a way that is 
going to move us toward a political settlement in the country is I 
believe, frankly, beyond dreaming. I do not think it has any viability 
whatsoever. In fact, I think it contributes to a further escalation of 
the conflict in the country and delays even further what everyone 
agrees must occur: some sort of political accommodation between Shias 
and Sunnis and Kurds--between Shias and Shias, for that matter. The 
idea that placing our troops as a referee in the middle of this civil 
conflict is going to get us closer to that result, I think, has been 
successfully argued against by those whom we respect and admire in 
these debates.


Secondly, may I say that, in fact, if you are trying to encourage 
those elements to get together and you are also trying to encourage 
regional diplomacy to play a role here, then it seems to me we ought to 
be talking about how best we can achieve that. When you have an 
administration that refuses to even engage in any kind of conversation 
or negotiations with governments in the region with which we have 
serious disagreements, then I think we get even further away from the 
suggestions made by the Baker-Hamilton study group on Iraq that 
proposed what I thought were very commonsense, sober, and sound 
recommendations that would allow us to have a greater likelihood of 
achieving the success we ought to be pursuing. I see little likelihood 
of that occurring if, in fact, we are talking about a further military 
escalation of the conflict here. Every single person who has looked at 
the situation in Iraq has drawn the following conclusion: There is no 
military solution--no military solution--in Iraq. So continuing to 
pursue that option, continuing to pursue that particular goal in the 
face of all the evidence to the contrary, I believe is a major, major 
mistake for this country.

I think this body--the Senate--ought to be on record expressing its 
opinion about it and that we ought to go forward in a meaningful, real, 
accountable way. Unfortunately, that is not likely to happen. In fact, 
we may end this debate without voting on anything at all regarding 
Iraq, as we need to move on to other items that the leadership clearly 
must address in the coming weeks. So we are missing an opportunity, 
other than to express our views, which most people have done. I know of 
no Member in this Chamber who has not spoken out publicly about whether 
they think the surge is the right direction to go in, what alternatives 
they would offer in terms of how we might begin to talk about 
redeployment, and the need for the Iraqis to assume responsibility for 
their own country.

The American people have also publicly spoken out. They voted for a 
change of course in Iraq last November and according to recent polls, a 
majority of Americans oppose a surge. Now I do not believe polling data 
ought to be the way you conduct foreign policy, but the fact is that 
the American public is exhausted and fed up, to put it mildly, with our 
Iraq policy. And let's consider the following data out of Iraq: Over 80 
percent of the people in that country believe that our continued 
presence in that country contributes to the chaos they are facing, and 
over 60 percent of Iraqis believe it is appropriate to attack American 
service men and women. Over 60 percent of the people in Iraq believe 
that.

How do you justify supporting an escalation, a surge in our military 
presence, when the very people whom we are told we are trying to help 
in this case believe that, one, we contribute to the chaos, and only a 
slightly smaller number believe it is appropriate to attack our service 
men and women? For the life of me, I do not understand how an American 
President could possibly support a policy that takes us further down 
that road.

Now we are not just talking about only two options here of escalating 
or leaving. There are policies that come in far between these two. For 
example, there have been suggestions about redeployment, with our 
service men and women filling other roles like training the Iraqi 
military, which was suggested by Baker-Hamilton. I think we should do 
this. We could engage in counterterrorism activities. Border security; 
we could play a very meaningful role in that as well. So there are 
those of us here who believe we ought to be redeploying, bring down 
those numbers, but none of us whom I know of have suggested we ought to 
be just packing our bags over the next 6 months and leaving Iraq. We 
are talking about other roles we can perform, as the 300,000 Iraqi 
soldiers and police take over the responsibility of their country.

Madam President, I am telling you as I stand before you today, if we 
continue to provide the kind of level of support militarily we are 
engaging in, there is less and less likelihood that the Iraqis are 
going to assume the responsibility, both politically and militarily, to 
take over leadership of their country.

For those reasons, I urge that we find a means and a vehicle, sooner 
rather than later, for this body--the Senate, this coequal branch of 
Government--to say to the administration and to others: We believe in a 
different direction. We would like a new authorization. We would like 
debate on a meaningful proposal that would allow us to be accounted 
for, yes or no, as to whether you want to move forward.

Again, with all due respect to those who crafted this, I have no 
greater admiration for any two Members than I do for Carl Levin and 
John Warner, people I have served with here for many years. I respect 
immensely the effort they have engaged in here to try to build a 
proposal that would attract a substantial majority of our colleagues to 
support. If you could do that, then sense-of-the-Senate resolutions 
have value. But I rest my case on what is occurring at the very moment 
I stand before you this afternoon. We are divided here. We have some 
four or five different resolutions. All of them are sense-of-the-Senate 
resolutions. None of them have any meaning in law at all. And we cannot 
seem to come around a single debate. We ought to be having one about 
whether we believe our resources and our young men's and women's lives 
ought to be placed in harm's way. That is the debate which ought to be 
occurring here. It is not occurring yet. I think that is unfortunate. 
It is tragic. My hope is we will find a means to address that in short 
order.

I yield the floor.