# AFGHANISTAN
## `f9edc3c0d6e2c1d3e5608bf1c3800ac7`
`Mr. FORTENBERRY — 28 October 2009`

---


Mr. FORTENBERRY. Mr. Speaker, Congress is currently engaged in a very 
important debate on health care. It's complex, and Americans deserve an 
informed and transparent debate. Yet while this discussion continues, 
there is a country roughly 7,000 miles from here where nearly 35,000 
American lives are on the line every day, and Congress has yet, given 
the changing circumstances there, to fully engage in a focused 
discussion with our military leaders on a comprehensive strategy for 
Afghanistan.

Since I was elected in 2004 and like so many of our colleagues, I 
have attended the funerals for fallen Nebraska soldiers. I've stood 
next to widows, whose young children were not of age, to comprehend the 
magnitude of the family loss. And yet when the time came, I did make 
the difficult decision to support sending more troops to Iraq in what 
was called a ''surge.'' It was the right call.

I have continually met with those who have served in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and I recently met with those who are preparing to 
redeploy. Their dedication to service and their commitment to our 
country continues to inspire me and the families they leave behind. The 
solemn responsibility for their lives continues to weigh very heavily 
upon us all.

Mr. Speaker, Afghanistan is facing complex security and governance 
challenges, and the situation demands engagement by this legislative 
body now. Although the administration developed a strategy for 
Afghanistan in March of this year, there is still a lack of clarity, 
some seeming uncertainty and certainly a hesitation to fully engage 
Congress in order to move forward in a decisive manner.

Many Afghan people have braved threats of brutal violence in order to 
vote. Our troops are courageously fulfilling their duties, and there is 
concern that their resources are stretched to the limit. None of us 
wants our soldiers at risk nor the opportunity for stability in 
Afghanistan to slip away.

The administration's top field general and the national security 
adviser are reflecting differently on the security situation in 
Afghanistan. General Jones stated on October 4, ''I don't foresee the 
return of the Taliban, and I want to be very clear that Afghanistan is 
not in danger, imminent danger, of falling.''



Yet our senior military commander, General Stanley McChrystal, 
assessed that ''the situation in Afghanistan is serious; neither 
success nor failure can be taken for granted. Although considerable 
effort and sacrifice have resulted in some progress, many indicators 
suggest the overall situation is deteriorating.''

We in Congress need to know, which is it? While we are responsible 
for funding and equipping the troops, the administration needs to 
define the next way forward, and this House needs to challenge the 
decision paralysis that threatens our mission in Afghanistan with each 
passing day. Until recently, the war in Afghanistan was the other war, 
the forgotten war, said by some to be the right war.

Mr. Speaker, as much as anyone, I would like to wait and to make sure 
that all is in order, but Afghanistan is slipping. According to General 
McChrystal, ''Failure to gain the initiative and reverse insurgent 
momentum in the near term (next 12 months)--while African's security 
capacity matures--risks an outcome where defeating the insurgency is no 
longer possible.''

In his initial assessment of the security situation, General 
McChrystal requested up to 40,000 additional combat troops. This is 
going to be a very tough call for all of us. Clearly, General 
McChrystal's judgment is based on keen insight about what it will take 
to prevail.

The American people deserve to know the unvarnished truth about the 
situation in Afghanistan and the fundamental purpose for our being 
there. Military families deserve to know the truth about the challenges 
facing their loved ones. Americans need to know that the administration 
is committed to a plan for success that minimizes our casualties, 
stabilizes the country, and brings the main contingent of our troops 
home quickly.

Let me venture to say that this is not just an American problem. The 
situation in Afghanistan and, for that matter, in Pakistan poses an 
international security threat, one that demands a shared response from 
the members of the international community. Pakistan has exhibited a 
stronger will of late to engage in the ungoverned tribal regions 
bordering Afghanistan.

Yet we have witnessed a curious range of responses by other 
governments. Some who see the urgency join us, others sit back hoping 
that we will save the day, and yet others exploit international 
tensions for economic and geopolitical gains. While it may be difficult 
to engender the will to send combat troops, our partner nations must 
help provide resources to stabilize Afghanistan.

Just as General Petraeus returned from Iraq to testify about the 
impact of the surge, I believe it would be helpful for President Obama 
to instruct General McChrystal to forthrightly articulate before this 
House his views, concerns and professional judgment.

Eight soldiers, Mr. Speaker, were killed yesterday. We need to 
develop adequately informed conclusions about the resources needed, 
Afghan capabilities, and international will.
