---
---

# None
## `f9f42104354a2963538845ea1ea77fae`
`Mr. HOYER — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the chairman for yielding. I thank the ranking 
member for his leadership.

I want to say particularly as I start that the distinguished chairman 
of this committee does America a great service. This is a critical bill 
for our Nation and for our men and women in uniform. There is no 
greater advocate of America's readiness or the quality of life of our 
service personnel than the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Skelton). I 
want to thank him for his leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to support the conference report on this vital 
bill for fiscal year 2010, which takes important steps to enhance our 
military readiness, our national security, and the well-being of our 
military families, and I might add our Federal employees, our civilian 
personnel as well.

I particularly want to thank Chairman Skelton, the Armed Services 
Committee and staff for their months of hard work to bring this 
legislation close to enactment. I know on the staff, this has been 
tough. The conference was tough.

In sum, the conference report authorizes $550.2 billion in budget 
authority for the Department of Defense and the national security 
programs at the Department of Energy, as well as $130 billion for 
overseas contingency operations. It is a serious response to the real, 
immediate, and rapidly changing threats our Nation and our troops face.

Among its most important provisions are those that help to rebuild 
our Armed Forces, which are worn down after years of war.

It provides $11 billion and $2 billion to re-equip the Army and 
Marine Corps respectively, as well as $6.9 billion to meet equipment 
shortfalls in the National Guard and Reserve.

In line with President Obama's request, it also adds an additional 
30,000 troops to the Army, 14,650 to the Air Force, 8,100 to the 
Marines, and 2,477 to the Navy. I believe these are critical 
provisions. We are asking our men and women to serve long tours at 
great risk. The trauma that they are experiencing is very substantial. 
The ops tempo, as we call it, is such that if we do not increase our 
forces, we will not be able to give the proper rest that our troops 
need. So I congratulate the committee for attending to that issue

It authorizes 30,000 more Army troops in fiscal years 2011 and 2012. 
Our Nation has made the proper decision to confront those who would 
cause us risk. But if we are going to do so, we must properly resource 
our services with the proper number of personnel.

To ensure safety and dignified living standards for those troops, it 
commits $350 million to construct new Army training barracks and $200 
million for facilities in the National Guard and Reserve.

This conference report also orients our country in the direction of 
the new national security strategy put forward by the Obama 
administration, which includes redeployment from Iraq and a commitment 
to the stability of Afghanistan and Pakistan. The conference report 
reflects those priorities.



Mr. Speaker, I have other matters that I could speak to, but I think 
everyone on this floor knows the importance of this bill. I note the 
presence on the floor of, like Mr. Skelton, one of the great leaders in 
supporting our Armed Forces on the floor with me, my good and dear 
friend Bill Young from the State of Florida, as the ranking Republican 
on the Appropriations Subcommittee. I want to thank him for his 
leadership. Mr. Young has been here, Ike, longer than either one of us 
has been here, and he has served his country very well. It is 
appropriate that he is on the floor as we consider this important bill.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, I would urge every Member in this House to 
support this bill which supports our troops, to support this bill which 
authorizes the funds necessary to respond to the needs and the policies 
of the United States of America in protecting our citizens and our 
homeland from those who would undermine our security and safety, who 
would attack our property and persons. That's what this bill is about.

This bill has many items in it, some more controversial than others. 
But at heart, this bill is about our troops and about America's 
security. I would hope and urge every one of my colleagues, when the 
roll is called, to vote ''aye'' on this critically important bill for 
the security of the United States of America.

Mr. Skelton, I congratulate you for your leadership. You are one of 
America's great patriots and leaders, and I am proud to be your 
colleague.