# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `f9fdae338f6786dcf627020f5c0a1365`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 17 July 2007`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, once again the new majority 
in the U.S. House of Representatives is calling on President Bush to 
change direction in Iraq and take the steps necessary to bring 
America's servicemen and women home from an Iraqi civil war we should 
not be fighting. The Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act, H.R. 2956, 
is legislation that directs the President to commence redeploying U.S. 
troops with April 1, 2008, as a target date for completion of the 
transition. I strongly support H.R. 2956 and would like to commend the 
efforts of Chairman Skelton and his staff for the leadership to bring 
this bill before the House.

It is clear that the majority of Members of this House, the 
overwhelming majority of Americans, and most of the world recognize 
that the on-going war in Iraq has been a disaster for the U.S., for the 
people of Iraq, and for security and stability in the entire Middle 
East. It is time for an exit strategy that allows U.S. troops to come 
home while transferring responsibility to Iraqi political leaders and 
their security forces to ensure the future of their country.

After 52 months--more than 4 years--of American troops in Iraq there 
can be no doubt about the commitment and sacrifice these brave men and 
women have offered our Nation. While their comrades continue to fight 
in Iraq, some 2,600 Minnesota National Guardsmen and women are now 
returning home after 15 months of service. They are heroes who have 
done the job they have been asked to do by their commanders. Our Nation 
is proud of these Minnesota troops and we are also proud of their 
families who sacrificed as well.

Unfortunately, while U.S. troops fight for Iraq's future there is a 
tremendous failure on the part of Iraq's political leadership to make 
the sacrifices necessary to create a political environment that could 
lead to stability and security. Sectarian tensions are too often 
promoted by political leaders which directly or indirectly lead to 
violence and killings of innocent civilians, far too frequently in the 
most brutal fashion. If political leadership and institution building 
on the part of the Iraqis are the essential components that will create 
an environment in which easing of sectarian tensions and stability can 
take hold, then the Bush administration has failed completely.

In Iraq, car bombings, suicide bombers, roadside bombs, sectarian 
executions, kidnappings and assassinations are all daily events that I 
regret to say are now normal for those of us who read any American 
newspaper. From the safety of thousands of miles away this is a tragedy 
for the Iraqi people and for those coalition forces trying to achieve 
their mission. For many of us it is also a tragedy because the war was 
manufactured by an American President who now appears to be completely 
out of touch with the dimension of the disaster he has created. Rather 
than rationally disengaging from the escalating violence inside Iraq, 
President Bush has escalated the U.S. presence with a ''surge'' 
strategy that in turn has cost more American lives.

Adding 30,000 U.S. troops since the beginning of 2007 has done 
nothing to change the fact that it is Iraqis who need to take control 
of their own country and confront the. forces, including terrorists, 
militias, sectarian police, soldiers and politicians, that continue to 
eviscerate, day-by-day, their own nation. If President Bush added 
100,000 more U.S. troops I am unconvinced that any change in the 
current situation would take place. Only a political solution can unify 
Iraqis in a manner that will allow them to focus their energy and 
resources on building a nation and ending the bloodshed.

The President's refusal to understand that Iraq is now damaging 
America--our military, our standing in the world, and the lost 
opportunities at home--is alarming. The fact is the Bush 
administration's actions in Iraq have resulted in far more harm, cost 
and pain to the U.S. than Saddam's regime ever could have inflicted on 
our Nation. Yet, the President's defenders in Congress and in the media 
continue to urge a ''stay the course'' strategy while invoking the name 
of Gen. David Petraeus as if he can singlehandedly erase four years of 
mistakes and ineptitude. General Petraeus is an excellent soldier and a 
talented leader, but he is not a miracle worker.

The time has come to for a rational, strategic plan to bring our 
troops home from Iraq and H.R. 2956 provides sound direction. The U.S. 
has interests in Iraq and the region which we must defend using our 
diplomatic, economic and military resources. We need to engage to a 
much greater extent with neighboring countries and the global powers to 
affect change inside Iraq. All this can be done while the 160,000 U.S. 
troops in Iraq are being withdrawn.

While I will vote for H.R. 2956 and I expect it to pass this House) I 
am also under no illusion that my Republican colleagues will vote 
against putting in place a strategy to bring our troops home. I have no 
doubt that President Bush would veto this legislation if it were to 
pass the Senate and be sent to the White House. Like the situation in 
Iraq, change cannot occur with regard to our policy in Iraq unless a 
political solution can be achieved in Congress with a veto proof 
majority of Members of the House and Senate. The American people must 
use their voice and put the pressure on House and Senate Republicans to 
support commonsense, responsible legislation, like H.R. 2956, which 
will put America's interests ahead of the President's hopelessly 
uncompromising commitment to a war without end in Iraq.

Finally, I want to commend Speaker Pelosi for her tireless leadership 
and commitment to ending the war in Iraq while always working to 
advance America's interests. The Speaker knows our Nation's security is 
paramount and the policies of the current Administration have put 
America at risk. Her continued leadership will ultimately result in 
Americans coming home safer and sooner from Iraq.
