---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `fa2f40bd0526ece80bd361f6cc896a2e`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, the conference report on the fiscal year 
2008 Department of Defense authorization bill now before the Senate 
includes some significant mileposts of progress for the National Guard. 
Those sections of the bill come directly from the National Guard 
Empowerment Act of 2007, a bill that I sponsored along with Senator Kit 
Bond of Missouri, my fellow cochair of the U.S Senate National Guard 
Caucus. Well over half of the Senate--a significant portion of the 
National Guard Caucus--cosponsored the empowerment bill. Working with 
the Nation's Governors, key National Guard-affiliated organizations, 
and the Adjutants General of the United States, we make notable headway 
in this bill on several issues that go to the core of the Guard's 
missions, preparedness and our national defense.

This legislation clears away organizational cobwebs in the Department 
of Defense and changes the Pentagon's structure to better reflect the 
vital role and responsibilities of the Guard. More importantly, we 
direct the Department of Defense to begin the urgently needed process 
of tapping into the National Guard's extensive experience in homeland 
defense issues--expertise the Defense Department has previously 
ignored.

To give the Guard more bureaucratic muscle, especially in decisions 
affecting the Guard, the legislation elevates the Chief of the National 
Guard from the rank of lieutenant general to the rank of general, 
making the Chief the prime military adviser to the Secretary of Defense 
and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The National Guard 
Bureau becomes what is called a Joint Activity, still closely 
affiliated with the Department of the Army and the Air Force, but now 
more like other joint agencies like Combatant Commands and the Defense 
Intelligence Agency, capable of communication across the Department.

To focus the Defense Department more on homeland defense, the bill 
requires that the Deputy Commander of the U.S. Northern Command come 
from the ranks of the National Guard, and it requires the Department of 
Defense to develop a plan in conjunction with the Guard to deal with 
homeland defense situations.

These reforms are tangible progress for the Guard, and there is a 
pressing need for them. The National Guard is a keystone to our 
Nation's defense, ready to carry out missions at home and abroad. The 
Guard is ready to serve as the primary reserve to both the Army and the 
Air Force, while taking the lead in providing military support during 
emergencies situations at home. It would take a long time even only to 
list the missions accomplished by the National Guard since September 11 
in carrying out their assignments in Iraq and Afghanistan or to respond 
to natural disasters like Hurricane Katrina.

Despite all the Guard's achievements on our behalf, the force often 
has gotten second-class treatment in the Department of Defense. The 
Guard has to beg and scrape and rely on the tender mercies of others 
for every piece of equipment they need to do the jobs they are asked to 
do, and they have to fight to be included in the long-range planning 
and budget and policy discussions that directly affect the Guard, its 
missions, its people, its equipment and its other needs. The Guard 
works extremely closely with state emergency responders, and they have 
special authorities and experience in working within the domestic 
United States. But despite this special expertise and these special 
authorities, does the Pentagon listen to and learn from the Guard's 
ideas and knowledge about domestic defense? Sad but true, the answer is 
no.

I wish we could have gone even further in this legislation. Dropped 
during floor debate here in the Senate was a section of the Empowerment 
bill to make the Guard Bureau Chief a member of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff. That would improve the quality of advice to the Secretary of 
Defense and the President on domestic defense matters. Another 
provision, removed in conference with the House, would give the Guard a 
separate budget for procuring homeland defense-related equipment, as 
well as the ability to work with states to identify gaps in emergency 
response capabilities. Another clearly warranted section of our bill 
would have ensured that our Adjutants General, who command units from 
the both the Army Guard and the Air Force Guard, receive joint credit 
for their experience. That would create a greater pool of candidates 
for the senior positions that we have opened up in this bill. The 
institutional objections we heard to these provisions ranged from the 
weak to the unreasonable. But regrettably, in this case they carried 
the day.

We did make clear progress. The joint activity provision, to take a 
less prominent example, is highly significant. The phrase ''joint 
activity'' means exactly how it is used in the Goldwater-Nichols Act: 
an organization that performs joint missions under the auspices of the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, or the commander of a Combatant or a Combined Command. The 
National Guard Bureau has now basically been given a legal license to 
work not only with the two services--the Army and Air Force--but also 
with a variety of unified commands, the Joint Staff, and the Office of 
the Secretary of Defense. The National Guard Bureau now will have 
similar organizational standing as that granted to other joint 
activities such as, among many other organizations, the Joint Staff or 
the Defense Logistics Agency.

This coalition of National Guard supporters--which goes far beyond 
the sponsors and co-sponsors to the Governors, the Associations, and 
many others--must keep pushing. If we are to have a national security 
structure that is as effective as the American people need and deserve 
it to be, we must ensure that the Guard's voice is heard loud and clear 
in key deliberations. We must ensure that the Pentagon takes the 
military support mission seriously. We should consider re-introducing 
the portions of the Empowerment legislation that have not yet been 
enacted. To keep a laser-like focus on domestic defense, we must take a 
careful look at other Defense Department organizations involved in 
domestic defense, like U.S. Northern Command.

I know that Senator Bond joins me in thanking the Nation's Governors 
for their stalwart support of the empowerment bill, as well their 
unstinting energy in working with us on another successful effort on 
behalf of the Guard, the similarly successful effort to repeal the 
recent changes to the Insurrection Act, turning back an unjustifiable 
expansion of a President's power to use the military for law 
enforcement. This provision of this Defense authorization bill was 
drawn directly from legislation that I introduced with Senator Bond, 
which this year was the subject of a hearing by the Judiciary 
Committee.

Associations like the Adjutants General Association of the United 
States, the National Guard Association of the United States, and the 
Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States were 
there every step of the way, keeping their members informed and 
bringing enormous energy to this effort.

Special thanks go to Representatives Gene Taylor of Mississippi and 
Tom Davis of Virginia who led a vigorous,


companion effort on the House side, as well as Senators Carl Levin of 
Michigan, John McCain of Arizona, and John Warner of Virginia for 
leading the Senate negotiations.

We owe the deepest thanks to the almost 500,000 members of the 
National Guard. Their ability to balance their full-time jobs with 
their family responsibilities and Guard commitments is simply 
remarkable. They are indispensable to our national security structure, 
at home, and abroad. Their sense of pride, professionalism and duty 
represents the very best qualities of our military and our country. I 
am simply in awe of what they have done to protect this Nation, and I 
know the whole Congress and the country share this heartfelt gratitude.

Throughout this whole process, we have been guided by the fact that 
the Guard is always there for the people of the United States of 
America. Our part is easier than theirs: We cannot afford to let our 
Guard down. The Guard Empowerment provisions of this bill will help us 
honor that commitment to the men and women of the Guard.