---
---

# None
## `fa32b5a003a23cbbc90278d09a3a297e`
`Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 6 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, let me just add that official diplomatic statements, 
even under oath in congressional testimony, critical of foreign 
governments, have consequences. Criticizing foreign governments through 
official statements of our government, when you are trying to get them 
to comply with other things, have consequences. Criticizing specific 
ministries, which were some of the questions asked, have consequences 
within a fragile political framework of the Iraqi current coalitions, 
and, for one reason or another, the State Department felt that, at 
least in an open forum, they felt constrained to make appropriate 
statements.

However, I think it is clear from the amount of testimony and the 
volume of testimony and the substance of the testimony that we have 
heard that there has been corruption in Iraq for a long time. It 
continues, it will probably continue after we leave, and it is 
something that this Congress and the American people need to know 
about, and we can address it here on the House floor.

This resolution was introduced dealing with corruption in Iraq and 
the State Department's attempts to cover up the extent of the 
corruption, or, I should say, the alleged attempts. This quotes various 
witnesses that have appeared before our committee over the last several 
years to discuss the affairs of Iraq.

Along with the chairman, I participated in those hearings, too, and I 
listened to what the witnesses had to say, and I share his concern 
about the extent of corruption in Iraq, and I hope every Member does. 
But I am concerned about the way that the statements are being 
portrayed, the statements by the panels of expert witnesses who 
appeared before our committee, because in this resolution, it only 
paints half the picture.

I offered to work with the chairman to come up with a resolution that 
in my judgment paints a more complete picture of the extent of 
corruption in Iraq, but the offer wasn't accepted. I then, in good 
faith, filed an amendment with the Rules Committee that accepted 
basically the resolution that was presented by the chairman but added 
some additional whereas and resolved clauses that I thought provided a 
more accurate, bipartisan perspective on the extent of corruption in 
Iraq.

For example, the chairman's resolution quotes Stuart Bowen, the 
Special Inspector General for Iraqi Reconstruction, as stating before 
the committee on October 4 that the ''rising tide of corruption in Iraq 
stymies the construction and maintenance of Iraq's infrastructure, 
deprives people of goods and services, reduces confidence in public 
institutions, and potentially aides insurgent groups reportedly funded 
by graft derived from oil smuggling or embezzlement.''

I concur with the chairman's concerns about this particular statement 
by Mr. Bowen and included the same statement in the amendments that we 
proposed. But I also added an additional quote made by Mr. Bowen at the 
hearing that says, ''Iraq has a history of corruption'' and ''the 
United States did not bring corruption to Iraq, and it will not be gone 
whenever we leave.''

He said that, but apparently that proposed addition didn't fit the 
theme of what the majority is trying to do this week.

Additionally, the chairman's resolution quotes David Walker, the 
well-respected Comptroller General of the United States, as stating 
before our committee that ''widespread corruption undermines efforts to 
develop the government's capacity by robbing it of needed resources, 
some of which are used to fund the insurgency.''

I concur with the chairman's concerns about that statement made by 
Mr. Walker, something we want the world to know, Congress should be 
aware of. I included the same statement in the amendments that I 
proposed. But I also added an additional quote by General Walker at the 
hearing that says, ''none of us should underestimate the challenges of 
establishing strong and transparent government institutions in the wake 
of a dictatorship where corruption was woven into the very fabric of 
governing. And none of us should underestimate the challenge of rooting 
out corruption in a combat zone, even one where violence is diminishing 
as we have seen over the past 6 months.''

Apparently this proposed addition also failed to fit the majority's 
tidy little box for discussion this week.

Another example, the resolution highlights the fact that the State 
Department instructed officials not to answer certain questions. My 
amendment included the same language as the chairman's but added an 
additional whereas to acknowledge the fact that the State Department 
counsel, concerned about the specific assessments regarding the 
government's capacities


of Iraq Ministries and Ministers made in an open setting, and that 
these statements could affect the United States' bilateral relationship 
with the Government of Iraq and could put in danger the lives of 
Americans, of our allies, repeatedly offered to make United States 
Government officials and employees available to respond to questions 
regarding potentially sensitive or classified information, including 
foreign government information, in an appropriate secure setting where 
we wouldn't be endangering lives.

But that truthful statement went too far as well to include in this 
resolution.

The resolution also states that the State Department retroactively 
classified two reports on corruption in Iraq prepared by the Office of 
Accountability and Transparency in the United States Embassy in Iraq. I 
included the same whereas clause, but simply added an additional 
whereas, to explain that the original leaked report was an internal, 
unpublished, unedited and unapproved draft report on corruption in Iraq 
that, as described by one U.S. Embassy Baghdad employee has been 
embellished with anecdotes for flavor. The report had not been properly 
reviewed and vetted for classification purposes before.

The majority was not interested in including that explanation for why 
the State Department chose to classify the report.

Finally, my amendment would have included all but one of the 
chairman's resolved clauses and then added a handful of additional 
clauses to paint a more accurate picture of the extent and cause of 
corruption in Iraq.

For example, I proposed to add a resolved clause that stated it is 
not an abuse of the classification process to protect from unauthorized 
disclosure information contained in draft internal, unedited, 
unpublished and unapproved reports that reasonably may be expected to 
cause harm to the national defense or foreign relations of the United 
States.

Like all the previously discussed additions I proposed, apparently 
this assessment went too far, which leads me to the unfortunate 
conclusion that the resolution we are considering today is not a 
substantive resolution intended to achieve a bipartisan consensus on 
the important issue of corruption in Iraq, which we all agree on. It is 
intended to politicize and is a political measure, put forth by the 
majority, with no intention of trying to reach constructive steps to 
improve U.S. anticorruption efforts.

Is that enough for Members to oppose this press release masquerading 
as serious legislation? That is for each Member to decide. As for me, I 
am going to support the resolution, with those reservations.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.