---
---

# HONORING DAVID TAYLOR MILLER
## `fa327de04a1709a4b02a173b13caa122`
`Mr. MURPHY of New York — 29 June 2010`

---


Mr. MURPHY of New York. I rise today with the very sad duty of 
reporting the tragic passing of U.S. Army Private First Class David 
Taylor Miller. Miller was killed in action by a suicide bomber who 
detonated an explosive device at a checkpoint Miller was guarding in 
Kunar Province of Afghanistan on Monday, June 21, 2010.

Taylor was just 19 years old, having graduated from Saratoga Springs 
High School in 2009. Despite his young age, his contributions to this 
world exceeded those of many people many times his age. The loss of so 
young a life is truly heart wrenching.

This tragic news comes as our community is still reeling from the 
loss of another young hero just last week.

Whether on the football field or on the battlefield, Taylor was a 
leader. He showed the strength and bravery that makes this Nation 
great. My heart goes out to his parents.

This true American hero made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of his 
Nation, and we owe him our eternal gratitude.

While it is moments like these that bring the true cost of our 
freedoms to the forefront of the public discussion, it is imperative 
that each and every one of us never forget what's at stake. We must 
always remember the hardships, suffering, bravery, and sacrifices for 
the families of those who serve our Armed Forces.

On behalf of a grateful Nation, our thoughts and prayers are with the 
entire Miller family during this tough time.
