---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `fa34155c57c0a092458213543dcfdc64`
`Mr. BIDEN — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I want to thank my colleague from Michigan 
for his suggestions. I believe that federalism and the creation of 
federal regions would be in the best interest of the Iraqi people and 
holds great promise for a political settlement among the Iraqi 
political leadership. I know that my friend is particularly concerned 
about the opposition of the Sunni community to the constitution. I 
agree with him that, at, the time of


adoption of the constitution, the Sunnis were opposed to many aspects 
of it including those provisions relating to federalism among others. 
But in my last visit to Iraq, my conversations with key Sunni leaders 
reveals a sea change in thinking. There is a growing recognition by the 
Sunni leadership that Sunnis will not get a fair shake if they are at 
the mercy of a strong central government controlled by their rivals in 
the Islamist Shiacamp. One key leader told me that he now understands 
that federalism is the best option for the Sunnis. Nonetheless, it is 
not my intention to forego the possibility that the Iraqi 
Constitutional Review Commission may recommend changes to their 
constitution nor that the United States should seek to impose a 
settlement on the Iraqis. I would note, however, at in the last draft 
proposed by the commission on May 23, 2007, none of the proposed 
changes would revoke any of the provisions of the constitution which 
permit the creation of federal regions. However, in deference to the 
Senator's concerns, I have amended the language to account for the 
possibility of the issue of regions being reopened by the Iraqis.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.