# IRAQ AND THE ECONOMY
## `fa3c7dffe4980fb45e56572d67f57da7`
`Mr. HALL of New York â€” 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Madam Speaker, it is good to be here with Mr. 
Klein and Congressman Braley.

Before I talk about Iraq, I have to respond to a couple of things 
that were said a few minutes ago by our friends from the other side of 
the aisle who used the word ''truth'' frequently and talked about their 
children and grandchildren. And I am sure they are sincere, but to 
those of you Americans out there listening, I am sure you can remember 
that when President Bush took over with Republicans controlling both 
Houses of Congress in the year 2001, he had a surplus delivered to him 
by the Clinton administration.

In the years since then, these folks you just heard talking, who 
profess to know what is best for our economy, have delivered to the 
United States, from a surplus when we were paying down the national 
debt, now the biggest deficit in the history of our country, the 
biggest balance of trade deficit, the biggest individual debt by 
Americans that is held, whether it is credit card debt or home second 
mortgage debt, and now we have the housing crisis, the subprime crisis, 
and various big box stores I was reading today are getting ready to 
file for or have already filed for bankruptcy, including some that we 
have seen proliferating around the country and have assumed that they 
were on solid ground.

So I would take all the proclamations you just heard and the fancy 
charts that you just saw from the Republican hour before us with a 
grain of salt.

The tax increase that they claim we are voting for is actually 
something that they, when they installed their tax cuts early in the 
Bush years, they installed it by putting in a sunset provision that is 
their creation, not ours. So I stand here and say that we have not in 
fact voted for anything like this biggest tax increase in history. It 
is a theatrical and dramatic presentation,


well acted, and possibly even believed by them, but it is not the 
truth.

As far as Iraq goes, we are spending $12 billion a week in Iraq, and 
I have started to look at the needs of our country and my district in 
particular in terms of how that money could be used here because we are 
basically running on fumes financially. I just visited 13 bridges that 
are on the dangerous faulty bridge list that came out after the I-35 
bridge collapse in Minnesota, and the estimate of the New York State 
Department of Transportation is that it will cost about $60 billion to 
fix all of the deficient bridges in the State of New York. That is 5 
months in Iraq.

I just came back 2 weeks ago from visiting a Nogales, Arizona, 
checkpoint on the Mexican border. Congressman Braley was on that trip, 
along with Congressman Arcuri. And we asked at every step of the way 
the Customs and Border protection officials what they need from 
Congress and what would their wish list be.

They said basically if it was Christmas and they could have 
everything that they wanted in terms of infrastructure, primarily what 
they need is more loading docks to unload the bales of marijuana that 
are stacked in front of an 18-wheeler behind a load of watermelons, or 
more bandwidth for more computers so they can get 10 fingerprints 
processed faster to establish somebody's identity. All of it, northern 
border, southern border, all ports on both coasts, $500 million a year 
for 10 years. That is $5 billion.



That's a little bit less than 2 weeks in Iraq to secure both of our 
borders and all of our ports. That sounds to me like it would actually 
make our country more secure; not that we want to shut the borders 
down, but we'd like to know who's coming and who's going, what's coming 
in and what's going out in terms of drugs, in terms of agricultural 
products that might be infested, in terms of currency smuggling. So 
anyway, there's a real cost to all these things.

And I would just say, after hearing General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker for the second time, it's clear that the goals in Iraq that 
we're spending this $12 billion a month on have been changing, that the 
goal posts have been moving, that 5 years after the initiation of this 
war and the death of 4,017 of our mothers, fathers, sons and daughters, 
brothers and sisters, I have a figure of 29,676 wounded, the estimate 
before the VA, Veterans Affairs Committee, last summer was that if the 
war stopped at that point we'd be looking at $1 trillion for the 
lifetime care of grievously wounded soldiers returning from Iraq. 
That's four injuries primarily, traumatic brain injury, PTSD, spinal 
cord injuries that cause paralysis, and amputations.

And these are, fortunately, men and women who we're able to save 
today in the battlefield because our battlefield medicine is so much 
better than it was in Vietnam, for instance. The ratio is about 16:1 
wounded to killed where in Vietnam it was about 2/1/2/:1. That's the 
good news is that we're saving more of these mostly young lives of 
brave Americans who've gone over there and fought and carried out their 
mission.

But the bad news is that the American public has not been told yet 
that, on top of the figures you mentioned, there's at least $1 trillion 
lifetime care for the wounded from this war that we're already looking 
at being responsible for. And we have to take care of these wounded 
warriors. You can't pay for the war and forget about the warriors.

So I would just say that we need to look at this in terms of a broad 
view of national security and a realistic, clear-eyed view of where we 
are financially and whether we can afford it.

And with that, I yield back to Mr. Klein.