# None
## `fa40392cb626bed11a6c25a50eca049e`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, first off, in the final 
days of the lame duck Congress, I'm grateful to join with Ranking 
Member Buck McKeon of California to be concerned that this outgoing 
majority has placed a higher priority on repealing Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell than actually passing the National Defense Authorization Act for 
fiscal year 2011. The Defense authorization bill is crucial for our 
national security concerns and the welfare of our troops and their 
families and our veterans, and has passed for 48 consecutive years in 
some form.

Secondly, as the son of a World War II veteran and as a 31-year 
veteran of the Army myself, and as the proud father of four sons 
currently serving in the military, I oppose attempts to repeal Don't 
Ask, Don't Tell in the waning days of this lame duck Congress. The 
service chiefs have urged caution because of the strenuous demands 
placed on our forces by the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

In fact, the Army Chief of Staff General George Casey, who I trained 
with at Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania, said the following: I would not 
recommend going forward at this time given everything that the Army has 
on its plate. I believe that it would increase the risk to our 
soldiers, particularly on our soldiers that are deployed in combat.

Commandant of the Marine Corps General James Amos had this to say: If 
the law is changed, it has strong potential for disruption at the small 
unit level. My recommendation is that we should not implement repeal at 
this time.

Air Force Chief of Staff General Norman Schwartz: I do not think it 
prudent to seek full implementation in the near term. I think that is 
too risky.

Mr. Speaker, the committees of jurisdiction must have time to examine 
the 370-page Pentagon report on the impact a repeal of Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell has on military readiness, recruitment, and morale. This attempt 
to hastily repeal in the final days of the defeated 111th


Congress undermines that process, and I urge my colleagues to oppose 
this legislation in favor of hearings next year on this important 
issue.