---
---

# IN MEMORIAM: U.S. ARMY SPECIALIST BLAINE E. REDDING
## `fa430acc3c6c3872178fef84a86e3e48`
`Mr. FORTENBERRY — 24 June 2010`

---


Mr. FORTENBERRY. Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday morning, under the beautiful 
prairie sky, U.S. Army Specialist Blaine Edward Redding was laid to 
rest in an old and serene Plattsmouth, Nebraska, cemetery. Specialist 
Redding was a 22-year-old newlywed, married just 10 weeks to Nikki 
before a roadside bomb took his life in Afghanistan on June 7. He died 
along with four other soldiers, two of whom were his close friends.

Blaine Redding followed a family tradition of service to our Nation, 
in the footsteps of his father and grandfather. Heeding the call to 
duty was also important to Blaine's younger brother, Private Logan 
Redding, who was also serving in Afghanistan in the 101st Airborne, 
just 15 miles away. Upon learning of his brother's death, Private 
Redding dutifully escorted Blaine's flag-dragged coffin back to Dover 
Air Force Base to meet their parents, Teresa and Pete, as well as 
Nikki.

Mr. Speaker, at the funeral, dozens of Patriot Guard Riders; children 
with their mothers, hands over their hearts; saluting veterans; local 
officials; and hundreds of citizens lined the streets reverently 
bearing American flags to honor Specialist Redding's sacrifice. A hand-
painted sign read, ''Thank you, Blaine.''

Also in attendance were Sally Allen and Monica Alexander, two mothers 
from nearby towns whose sons were killed during their service in Iraq. 
They came just to show their support.

By the many heartwarming accounts I heard from his loved ones on 
Tuesday, he was a beloved son, friend, and husband. He cared deeply 
about his family and his country. He had served before in Iraq, and 
volunteered for another tour of duty in Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, my heart is heavy with the loss of Specialist Redding. I 
am deeply humbled by his service and his sacrifice, and I wish God's 
blessings upon him and his family during this difficult time.
