# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `fa50f436e2beb3604f71fe2efac94026`
`Mr. DORGAN — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, my understanding is the floor is available 
for some discussion while we are waiting for the managers to work on 
amendments and perhaps clear amendments, and I wanted to take a few 
minutes along with my colleague Senator Craig to talk about some 
information in a piece of legislation we have previously introduced 
called the SAFE Energy Act, Security and Fuel Efficiency Energy Act.

That legislation represents legislation trying to reduce the oil 
intensity of the American economy. The calculation of where we are with 
respect to oil in this country is that we are dangerously dependent on 
foreign sources of oil, dangerously dependent on oil that comes from 
very troubled parts of the world--Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, 
Venezuela, and more. That dependence now is over 60 percent. In other 
words, over 60 percent of the oil we need to run this country's economy 
comes from other parts of the world, much of it very troubled.

If, God forbid, tomorrow a terrorist were to interrupt the supply of 
oil coming to this country, our economy would be flat on its back. So 
how do we reduce the oil intensity in this country? Well, you do a lot 
of things. I mentioned that 60 percent plus of our oil comes from 
outside of our country. About 70 percent of the oil we use in this 
country is used in vehicles. So while 60 percent comes from other 
countries, 70 percent is running through a carburetor or fuel injector 
to make our vehicle fleet go, and we are in a hopeless pursuit of 
becoming less dependent on foreign sources of energy if we don't make 
our vehicle fleet more efficient.

So that is one. You have to make your vehicle fleet more efficient. 
We have just passed a piece of legislation that moves in that 
direction. But you need a lot of things: You need efficiency, you need 
conservation, you need renewable energy, you need additional production 
of energy; yes, even fossil fuels, but done in an environmentally 
acceptable way. So conservation.

We misuse, we waste, an enormous amount of energy in this country. 
The cheapest form of energy available to us is through conservation. 
There is no question about that. Efficiency. Almost everything we do in 
this country, from the time we get up in the morning until we go to bed 
at night, we are using all kinds of appliances that require energy. We 
flip on a switch and a light bulb turns on. We plug in a razor and 
shave and use electricity. We jump in the shower and that water is 
heated by electricity or perhaps natural gas. But the fact is 
everything we do can be made more efficient.

There are strange terms, such as SEER 13 standards for air 
conditioners. Some don't know what that means. I know it is kind of an 
arcane language, talking about SEER 13 standards, but it means much 
more efficient air conditioners. We fought for a long time about that 
and finally got a SEER 13 standard, and it is going to use much less 
electricity and be much more efficient.

So conservation, efficiency, renewables. The bill on the floor of the 
Senate is a significant piece of legislation dealing with renewable 
energy, solar energy, biomass, wind energy, and then the biofuels, 
including ethanol, biodiesel, and all of these issues that deal with 
renewable energy. That is another significant step toward being less 
dependent on foreign sources of oil. Conservation, efficiency, 
renewables.

But there is another piece that has received too little notice, in my 
judgment, too little notice on the floor of the Senate, and that is 
additional production. We are going to use additional coal. As chairman 
of the Energy and Water appropriations subcommittee that funds those 
energy accounts, we are going to use clean power and clean coal 
technology to, I hope one of these days, be able to have a coal-fired 
electric generating plant that is a zero-emission coal-fired electric 
generating plant. I believe we can get there through technology and 
better science. We have all these issues we are working on.

With respect to fossil fuel, coal, oil, and natural gas, we need to 
find additional ways to produce additional quantities of oil here as 
well. As I look at this issue, and my colleague Senator Craig and I 
have evaluated this issue, there are quantities of oil offshore--yes, 
in Alaska and on the west coast, in the gulf--and the largest quantity 
is in the Gulf of Mexico. We know we have passed some legislation in 
the last 2 years, within the last year and a half or so, opening up 
what is called lease 181. It was modified, through the work of the 
Senators from Florida and others, in a way that was acceptable to them.

We opened up a portion of the Gulf of Mexico for additional 
production. Senator Craig and I believe there are additional tracts and 
significant tracts that can be open for additional production of oil, 
oil and natural gas, and that such production can be done without 
destruction of our environment. That production can be done by 
expanding the supply, which must be part of the answer to addressing 
this energy problem we have.

The oil intensity in our country makes us dangerously dependent on 
foreign sources of oil, and so as we look at how we deal with that, we 
deal with it in a lot of ways, but one of those ways must, in my 
judgment, include some additional production with proper and certain 
environmental protections. That can be done. That should be done, in my 
judgment.

Now, Senator Craig and I understand that portion of the plan we 
introduced here in the Senate that deals with offshore production is 
controversial. We understand when you try to do something such as 
that, people come to the floor and put up a pretty vigorous fight. I 
might say the Presiding Officer, being from Florida, has been very 
active and very aggressive in protecting his State's interests, and 
very effective at protecting his State's interests. Both Senators from 
Florida have been active and involved in that. We understand that.


We also understand it is not likely at this point that we have the 
votes here in the Senate at this moment to expand the kind of 
production we wish to expand in the Gulf of Mexico, but that doesn't 
mean we shouldn't be discussing and considering how at some point in 
the future we access those significant additional quantities of oil and 
natural gas our country needs, and how we access them with the kind of 
certain protections for our economy and our environment that would be 
necessary to accompany that.

That is why Senator Craig and I introduced a piece of legislation 
that has this production side to it, and we feel it has not been much 
discussed on the floor of the Senate. Everything else has been--
conservation, efficiency, renewables--all of which I support, all of 
which I am excited about, all of which I think advance this country's 
interest, but the production side has not been discussed in as 
significant a way as I believe it should. So I wanted to simply take 
this moment to say that the proposal offered by my colleague from Idaho 
and myself is one that believes that whether it is now or in the 
future, the construct of how we put together a comprehensive energy 
plan to reduce the dangerous dependence we have on foreign sources of 
oil must include some additional production, and the most likely place, 
with the greatest potential, if you look at all of the potential areas, 
is in the Gulf of Mexico.

Mr. President, I yield the floor so my colleague from Idaho can 
express himself as well.