---
---

# ARMY PFC ZACHARY ENDSLEY
## `fa555862deb9bfe37dec8be2d826219e`
`Mr. POE — 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. POE. Madam Speaker, ''On fame's eternal camping ground, their 
silent tents are spread, and glory guards with solemn round, the 
bivouac of the dead.''

These words are etched in Arlington National Cemetery, not far from 
this Capitol, the eternal resting place for those soldiers who gave all 
they had in pursuit of American freedom. The rows and rows of pristine 
white headstones silently speak of what it means to be an American 
warrior: bravery, courage, honor, duty. These are the individuals who 
knew it was their calling to be a part of the greatest military force 
in the United States history, and they did not run from that calling. 
They accepted it willingly and helped headed off into the dawn of 
battle.

Army Private First Class Zachary Endsley was an individual who 
understood that being a military soldier was his calling. A native of 
Spring, Texas, PFC Endsley was a young man with a quiet personality and 
loved to play practical jokes on family and friends.

An appreciater of the arts, Endsley enjoyed drawing and playing his 
guitar. It was his drawing ability that stood out. In high school, he 
entered and won a poster contest with his design.

PFC Endsley had been hearing the calling to become an American 
warrior for many years in his young life. He joined the Civil Air 
Patrol, a volunteer organization with the United States Air Force when 
he was just a teenager. He was also involved in the Air Force Junior 
Reserve Officer Training Corps at Oak Ridge High School.

After graduating from high school in 2004, just 3 years ago, he 
attended local community college but realized that college wasn't 
really for him. But he was enthralled with the military, and after 
putting off the calling to be a soldier for long enough, he knew it was 
time to pursue a career in the United States Army.

His family was proud of his decision to serve in the Army, and he 
enlisted in the Army in 2005. Endsley excelled in his military 
placement test for the Army and had the distinct honor of being able to 
choose the job he wanted to hold. He chose the infantry.

Infantrymen are on the front line, he said. They are the first 
through the door and the first into danger. They are courageously 
fierce and commandingly fearless patriots. It is no wonder PFC Endsley 
wanted to be a part of this band of brothers.

PFC Endsley understood the Nation was at war, yet he chose to charge 
headlong into battle. There are not many of us who would be willing to 
volunteer to leap into the lion's den of Iraq or Afghanistan where the 
cowardly enemy hides in caves. It says something special about the 
quality of this American fighting man that he would boldly face those 
who would kill in the name of religion.

This is a recent photograph of PFC Endsley. He was assigned to B 
Company, 1st Battalion, 4th Infantry Regiment in Hohnefels, Germany. 
From Germany, this soldier was dispatched to Afghanistan. He never 
really told his family where he was going because he didn't want them 
to worry about him.

But on Monday, 4 days ago, July 23, 2007, PFC Zachary Endsley's unit 
came under fire by Taliban insurgents in Afghanistan. In the midst of 
this battle, his vehicle was assaulted with rocket-propelled grenade 
fire. PFC Endsley was killed in action. He was 21 years of age. He was 
supposed to come back to Texas in just 3 weeks.

Madam Speaker, PFC Zachary Endsley was a true soldier. According to a 
family friend, he joined the Army to provide others with the freedoms 
that we as Americans have. What a noble thought.

As an infantryman in Afghanistan fighting the forces of the Taliban, 
Endsley defended that freedom. He defended it for his mother, Melinda; 
his stepfather, David; his father, Terry; his brother, Aaron; his 
stepsisters, Katie and Kimberly; and all of their families.

He went to Afghanistan and defended freedom in a land he had never 
seen for a people he did not know. This son of Texas and American 
patriot will return home to his birthplace and receive a victor's 
homecoming. Those who he protected will line the streets, as the small 
towns in southeast Texas always do when their fallen come home. And 
they will bid a silent and proud farewell to a soldier they might not 
have had the privilege to know, but they will always be grateful to.

Amazing people these young volunteers of the United States Army.

So, Madam Speaker, tonight the bugles of taps are silent in the 
cemetery of the fallen. ''In simple obedience to duty, they suffered 
all, sacrificed all, and dared all.''



PFC Zachary Endsley, your tour of duty has been honorably concluded.

And that's just the way it is.
