# VETERANS' BENEFITS ENHANCEMENT ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `fa6413f311a91a819bfb89b680b34e46`
`Mr. BURR — 22 April 2008`

---


Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I have a deep respect for my chairman and 
friend, Senator Akaka. I think the Senator has suggested that over the 
course of the last half year we have had some disagreements. I don't 
expect him to know everything that has been communicated to staff or 
that my staff communicated to his staff.

The reality is that we are here today, and we each respect each 
other. We are both honored to serve in the Senate. We both have the 
same responsibility to the same people--and that is the American 
taxpayers--to make sure we are fiscally responsible but, more 
importantly, that we are prudent, that we prioritize things where they 
are needed the most.

At noon today we will have a cloture vote on the motion to proceed to 
S. 1315. For one, I have mixed feelings about where we are in the 
process. I share the frustrations of Chairman Akaka. The proud 
tradition of the Senate committee on Veterans' Affairs has been to 
write laws that improve benefits and services for our veterans. Those 
laws typically enjoy bipartisan support. As a result, the committee's 
bills have almost always passed by unanimous consent. In fact, I asked 
the Senate Library to confirm that for me.

Since 1990, there have been only two rollcall votes on bills reported 
from the Committee on Veterans' Affairs: the first in the 102d Congress 
which cleared by a vote of 99 to 0; the second was in the 105th 
Congress and cleared by a vote of 98 to 0. There were no amendments 
that received rollcall votes on either of those bills.

This tells me that Republicans and Democrats have always been able to 
reach a compromise on committee bills out of the Veterans' Affairs 
Committee. There has been no need for floor debate or rollcall votes 
when it comes to the veterans bills. The norm is to find a common 
agreement before moving forward, even on policy issues with which one 
side or the other may not agree.

This has changed during this Congress with the unprecedented vote on 
cloture that we will have today. The chairman, in the spirit of our 
relationship, sent me a letter on, I believe, the 10th of the month 
requesting that we work on this. The next day, the majority leader of 
the Senate filed cloture. I am not sure how quickly I am supposed to 
jump through the hoop for him, but I didn't do it fast enough. I say 
that with the knowledge that the chairman and I both have that we are 
not in charge. We don't always make the decisions on the course the 
Senate will follow.



Let me briefly outline for my colleagues the key disagreement that 
has held up this bill for so long; namely, the provision that seeks to 
use $221 million over the next 10 years to create a special pension for 
Filipino veterans who have no war injuries, are not U.S. citizens, and 
who reside in the Philippines.

There are four groups of Filipino veterans. Here is a chart. There 
are the old scouts, who enlisted in the U.S. Army. They are veterans of 
the U.S. Army through and through. You see in the benefits that is 
exactly what is displayed. We have the Commonwealth Army of the 
Philippines, Recognized Guerilla Forces, and new Filipino Scouts, 
individuals committed to the Armed Forces of the Philippines and, yes, 
at times were under U.S. command.


The important thing to notice is our disagreement is with the pension 
for nonservice-connected disability and the death pension for 
survivors. It is the $221 million that is suggested to create a special 
pension for 13,000 individuals whom I do not dislike. I do not want any 
Member of this Congress to think in any way that I devalue what they 
did. But I have researched this in history, which we will get into over 
this debate, that Congress never intended for something such as this to 
be extended.

I, again, have profound respect for the World War II service of 
Filipino veterans. Their contribution to victory in the Pacific is a 
matter of historical record. We honor them--I honor them--their 
service, their sacrifice. We have good friends in the Philippines. But 
the issue at hand is not the merit of the service rendered by Filipino 
veterans. The issue is whether creating a special pension for them in 
the Philippines is responsive to the following questions:

Is it the right priority in time of war when the needs of our men and 
women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan are so great?

Two, is it appropriate policy, given the purpose of VA pensions and 
the vast differences in the United States and Filipino economies?

And last, is it fair to U.S. pension recipients from whom this money 
is taken to pay for this special pension in the Philippines?

Let me ask that another chart be put up because I think it is 
absolutely crucial that we understand exactly what we are talking about 
in a $300, or $221 million, special pension.

For a U.S. veteran, if they qualify for a special pension, we are 
going to get their annual stipend to $11,181, which is 17 percent of 
U.S. median income. We are going to take American veterans slightly 
above the poverty level. If it is a married veteran couple, we are 
going to get them to $14,643, which is 22 percent of the median income 
in the United States and slightly above the level of poverty. Special 
pensions were designed to make sure a veteran was out of poverty. We 
were not putting them into the middle class in the United States, but 
we were getting them out of poverty because that was the right thing to 
do. If it is a surviving spouse in the United States, they get a 
payment of $7,498, which is 11 percent of the median income in the 
United States.

Today in the Philippines, the Filipino Government provides $120 a 
month pension for these 13,000 individuals Senator Akaka is targeting. 
I am not taking into account the $120 a month that the Philippine 
Government is providing for each one of these 13,000. But if they are a 
single veteran in the Philippines with the stipend that Senator Akaka's 
bill has, we will provide $3,600 a year, which will be 87 percent of 
the median income of the Philippine economy. If you add in to that 
number the $120, we see they far exceed the median income of the middle 
class of the Philippines. If, in fact, it is a married couple, the 
stipend from the United States in a special pension for a Filipino 
living in the Philippines with no service-connected injury is $4,500, 
108 percent of the median income of a Philippine family; in the case of 
a surviving spouse, $2,400, or 58 percent of the median income.

It is important to understand that the VA pension is designed for 
veterans who have no service-related injuries and who are poor, 
according to the U.S. definition of poverty. The maximum VA pension 
payable to a U.S. veteran puts them 10 percent above the poverty 
threshold and 17 percent of median income.

The Philippine Government, as I said, already provides a monthly 
pension to Philippine veterans, putting them at roughly 400 percent 
over poverty with the $120 pension that the Philippine Government 
provides, and 35 percent of the average income of the household. Adding 
an additional VA pension on top, as considered in S. 1315, would put a 
single Filipino veteran at roughly 1,400 percent over the Philippine 
poverty level.

What are we talking about in simplistic terms? We are going to allow 
a U.S. veteran to get slightly over the poverty level. The percentage 
was 10 percent. But we are going to create a special pension for 
Filipinos who live in the Philippines and have no service-connected 
disability that is going to make their percentage over poverty 1,400 
percent when U.S. veterans are at 10 percent over the poverty line and 
21 percent above the average household income.

A VA pension benefit is not designed to put a veteran in the middle 
class. It certainly does not in the United States. I do not believe it 
is our responsibility to do it in the Philippines, and I do not believe 
in this time of war that it is a priority of this country.

It is meant to ensure that no wartime veterans suffer the indignity 
of poverty, whether you are in the Philippines or whether you are in 
the United States. We have defined that in the United States as 10 
percent above the poverty line.

I can argue that is not good enough, but I can certainly make the 
case that going to 1,400 percent above the poverty line is not right. 
It is not the right policy, and it is certainly not the right priority. 
Creating any new pension benefits for Filipinos in an effort to rectify 
what some call an injustice would only serve to create a new injustice 
for U.S.-based veterans because of an enormous discrepancy in the two 
Nations' economies.

As I said, I have deep respect for Senator Akaka. We will have a 
spirited debate, I am convinced, over the next 2 days, 3 days--whatever 
our leadership decides. That is where it gets out of our hands. I am 
willing to do it. I have done my homework. I am willing to get into the 
1946 Senate hearings when the Senate debated an act where they took 
benefits away because they researched it to find out if we promised 
veterans' benefits be extended. And the court's interpretation was they 
extended it and, quite frankly, the Congress in 1946 legislatively took 
those benefits away that the court had awarded.

I have Senate hearings from 1948. And in the 1990s, I have the 
Clinton administration that came to this body and lobbied that this was 
not the right thing to do; they were not supportive of it. I am willing 
to share that information with all our colleagues, and over the next 
couple of days, I think everybody will get a great history lesson on 
what happened with our decisions and who has testified since 1944 to 
the Senate about this issue.

I do not expect any American who listens to be less than educated on 
whether this is the right move or the wrong move. But I also believe my 
colleagues will recognize the fact if we are establishing 10 percent 
above poverty for U.S. veterans and we are down here talking about a 
special pension to individuals who live in the Philippines who have no 
service-connected injury that is going to be 1,400 percent over 
poverty, this is the wrong thing for the Senate to do.

Mr. President, I am going to yield to my good friend and former 
ranking member of the committee. But I do want to say before I yield to 
him, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of the cloture motion. I 
want to proceed. I want to debate this issue. I want to make sure every 
Member of the Senate has an opportunity to hear the full breadth of 
what has happened since 1946, and I am prepared to do exactly that.

I yield the floor.