---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `fa656946786fe46cbbe7c0689b9d60e3`
`Mr. BLUNT — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. BLUNT. I thank the gentleman for the time.

Madam Speaker, I rise again today, as I did at the beginning of this 
debate, to urge a ''no'' vote on this nonbinding resolution. We have 
spent the week discussing the situation in Iraq and trying to find out 
what the resolution may really mean.

As I said at the start of this debate, it is hard to imagine a less 
qualified group prepared to determine tactics on the ground than 535 
Members of Congress, or 535 members of anything else; how many troops 
to deploy, where to deploy them, which car to stop. Where does it end?

There is a disagreement on how we should fight this war on Islamic 
totalitarianism, but this fight is the challenge of our generation.

Madam Speaker, many of my friends on the other side of the aisle 
supported this mission at the beginning. Now they are ready to give up 
in the middle of the fight.

Those who join me in opposing this nonbinding resolution have been 
saying all week, while this resolution will have no impact because it 
is nonbinding, it is still the first step toward cutting funding for 
our troops.

Yesterday, we were told that this is the first step toward pulling 
the rug out from under our troops in the field.

This week, one of the veterans on our side of the aisle was accused 
of being dishonest in her representation when she said that this 
resolution we will vote on today did not support those who are 
deploying. But the gentleman from Pennsylvania, Mr. Murtha, said just 
yesterday, during the unveiling of his strategy to pull the rug out 
from under our troops, ''They won't be able to continue. They won't be 
able to do the deployment. They won't have the equipment. They don't 
have the training, and they won't be able to do the work.''

He also said, ''I think, first of all, we have to be careful that 
people don't think this is the vote. The real vote will come on the 
legislation we are putting together. This nonbinding legislation is 
just an opinion.''

I would say this resolution says just enough not to say anything at 
all. We have already heard the Democrats calling the debate this week 
the ''bark before the bite.'' Their so-called slow-bleed approach is 
the bite that will surely hurt those fighting under America's flag 
overseas.

This nonbinding resolution is the first step in an all-too-binding 
spiral toward defeat in a fight that we cannot afford to lose.

I am not pleased to vote ''no'' today, but I will vote ''no,'' 
knowing that the ''no'' vote is the right vote.