---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE DISTINGUISHED SERVICE OF CONGRESSMAN MARTY MEEHAN
## `fa68686543314cd1ea586b2d316978c5`
`Mr. SKELTON — 27 June 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize my good friend 
and colleague, Marty Meehan, the chairman of the House Armed Services 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. I would like to thank him 
on behalf of the committee for his distinguished service to our country 
and to the men and women who wear the uniform.

Marty came to the House of Representatives in 1993 to represent the 
Fifth District of Massachusetts. He's worked tirelessly to encourage 
economic development in the area, to redevelop and maintain the 
military presence at Fort Devens, and to preserve over 10,000 acres of 
open space in Massachusetts.

Additionally, Marty was the lead Democrat sponsor of the Shays-
Meehan-McCain-Feingold Bipartisan Campaign Finance Reform Act of 2002.

Marty has served on the Armed Services Committee since coming to the 
House of Representatives in the early 1990s. Marty was the ranking 
member of the Terrorism and Unconventional Threats and Capabilities 
Subcommittee and has been an active member of the Military Personnel 
Subcommittee, where Marty has had a strong interest in helping 
Reservists and Guardsmen in their transition from military to civilian 
life.

As chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, 
Marty has led a bipartisan investigation into the development of the 
Iraqi Security Forces. The product of this investigation, a report on 
subcommittee's findings and recommendations, was unanimously agreed 
upon and signed by every member of that subcommittee. The report seeks 
to present information for the public debate and recommends increased 
transparency into the training of the Iraqi Security Forces.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to wish Marty Meehan the best of luck as he 
leaves this institution to serve as the next chancellor of the 
University of Massachusetts at Lowell.
