---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `fa6eb6942e89af9555fb39bfb8f0f58b`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. I rise in opposition to the resolution.

My colleagues, this is clearly the wrong resolution offered at 
precisely the wrong time. Can you imagine being a soldier in 
Afghanistan hearing of this resolution? Instead of debating a 
withdrawal from Afghanistan, we should be adopting a resolution 
praising the all-volunteer men and women of our Armed Forces and their 
families for their courage, dedicated service, and their continuing 
sacrifice in the name of protecting Americans everywhere.

Our Nation's Commander in Chief, our President, made the decision to 
act in Afghanistan, a difficult decision that was supported 
overwhelmingly by Congress. By the skill and bravery of our soldiers 
and marines, sailors and airmen, we've eliminated al Qaeda's operations 
in Afghanistan. But it is clear that we must ensure that our efforts to 
prevent Afghanistan from becoming a safe haven once again do not 
falter, do not weaken, and do not waver.

I concurred with the administration's decision to support General 
Stanley McChrystal's counterinsurgency strategy. That was an important 
step towards stabilizing Afghanistan. The President's reinforcement of 
our marines and soldiers, the so-called surge, helps achieve that 
objective and does provide additional security. The reinforcements have 
worked. There is success in Afghanistan. Our troops deserve support, 
and this resolution deserves to be soundly defeated.