# None
## `fa6e9402e2dfd2401a2dbb39a9bb25a2`
`Ms. FOXX — 28 February 2008`

---


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume.

I rise today to urge passage of this bill designating the facility of 
the United States Postal Service located at 3050 Hunsinger Lane in 
Louisville, Kentucky, as the ''Iraq and Afghanistan Fallen Military 
Heroes of Louisville Memorial Post Office Building.''



In the wake of the attacks of September 11, the United States struck 
back against those forces that wished to destroy not only this Nation, 
but all people that do not agree with their limited views on freedom, 
justice, and democracy. Every day across this great Nation, men and 
women answer the call to duty to combat these forces. Many have paid 
the ultimate price. Others have been wounded. But their sacrifice came 
so others may live safe and free. For that, we are eternally grateful.

Since the beginning of this conflict, eight heroic servicepeople from 
Louisville, Kentucky, have lost their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan. We 
honor their sacrifice with this postal designation. This also serves to 
honor those who may lose their lives in service to our country in the 
future.

These brave citizens of Louisville, like so many other Americans, 
lost their lives protecting us from those people who fight against the 
rights and privileges that we as Americans enjoy. I urge that we pass 
this bill so that their memory and sacrifice will not be forgotten.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.