---
---

# AFGHANISTAN
## `fa82d9d928c23882c7df4ce84b26f22f`
`Mr. McCAIN — 16 September 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Is it true that yesterday, when we had the hearing with 
Admiral Mullen for renomination as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, and who I think we would all agree has done an outstanding job 
of serving our


country, it was pretty clear that Admiral Mullen felt a sense of 
urgency for us to act in Afghanistan because al-Qaida and the Taliban--
especially the Taliban--are making inroads and we, in his words, are 
not seeing the progress we want, that we are losing, basically, in 
Afghanistan?

Didn't he say to you and to Senator Graham such that the important 
thing is that time is not on our side and we need to get troops over 
there as quickly as possible, in keeping with the strategy that was 
devised in March of this year and agreed to by the President? That was 
my understanding.

And Senator Graham said: OK, now as to the civilians, I just got back 
from a visit. I appreciate all our civilians who are over there from 
different agencies. They are very brave, but, quite honestly, they 
can't go anywhere.

Admiral Mullen said: Right.

Senator Graham said: You could send 10,000 lawyers from the State 
Department to deal with rural law programs, but they are sitting on the 
base because if they leave the base, they are going to get shot.

Admiral Mullen:

Right.

Then Graham said:




 The only way to get off the base is if they have a military 


 convoy, is that right?


Mullen said:

Right.

Senator Graham said:




 So I just want our colleagues to know the security 


 environment in Afghanistan, from my point of view, will 


 prevent any civilian success until we change the security 


 environment. How long would it take to train enough Afghan 


 troops to change the momentum, in your view, if we did it 


 just with Afghan forces?


And he said:




 Two or three years.


Then Senator Graham said:




 What will happen in that two or three year period in terms 


 of the security environment while we are training.


Mullen said:




 If it's just training?


Graham said:




 Yes.


Mullen said:




 I think the security environment will continue to 


 deteriorate.


I ask my friend, doesn't that lend urgency, which is certainly not 
apparent in the President's statement today? After meeting with the 
Canadian Prime Minister, basically saying he is going to go through a 
long process of evaluation and another strategy, claiming he didn't 
have one before. That is what is disturbing, is the total lack of 
urgency in the President's statement today.