# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `fa89fbf7256bd0db80686757ce5ce035`
`Mr. DURBIN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the question is: What is our duty? We know 
what the duty of our soldiers will be when they raise their hand and 
take an oath to serve our country. They agree to risk their lives for 
America. They follow orders. They follow the lead of their commanders. 
They march into battle. Some come home and some do not. But what is the 
duty of the Congress? What is our responsibility when it comes to war?

First, of course, was the authorization for the use of force. 
President Bush came to us and said, I want to have the authority to 
invade Iraq for three reasons: No. 1, to get rid of the dictator Saddam 
Hussein; No. 2, to destroy weapons of mass destruction; and No. 3, to 
make sure the country lives up to the requirements of the United 
Nations resolutions.

Many of us felt at the time that America was being misled about the 
real danger in Iraq. Some of us, some 23 Senators, voted against the 
authorization of force back in October of 2002. But as we take a look 
at that scene in Iraq today, we realize that all three of those things 
have been accomplished. Saddam Hussein no longer exists, weapons of 
mass destruction never existed, and there is no question about 
complying with the United Nations resolutions.

So the obvious question is: By what authority is America still there? 
By what authority do 150,000 Americans now risk their lives while we 
stand in the safety of this Chamber?

This resolution seeks to define our mission today in realistic terms. 
If the President had come to Congress 4 years ago and said, I want the 
authority to send American troops into the middle of a civil war in 
Iraq, a war that has been brewing for 14 centuries between warring 
Islamic factions; I want American soldiers on the street risking their 
lives every day until the Iraqis resolve this age-old dispute, do you 
think we would have approved that authorization of the use of American 
force? Of course not. It would have been pure folly.

Sadly, the situation today has no clear mission, and that is the 
reason for this resolution. This resolution makes it clear the Iraq 
Study Group, Democrats and Republicans, men and women who served our 
country so well in public service, would have a chance to step forward 
and come up with a plan that makes sense for America to start coming 
home, and that is what this resolution says.