# CPL. JOHN P. SIGSBEE POST OFFICE
## `fa8a979e51bae9050efc51c5f867f53e`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 8 July 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, as a member of the House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, I rise to join my colleagues in the consideration 
and support of H.R. 5975, which renames a postal facility in 
Waterville, New York, after Corporal John P. Sigsbee.

The measure being considered was first introduced by Congressman 
Michael Arcuri of New York on May 6, 2008, and is cosponsored by all 
members of the Empire State, the New York delegation. Upon introduction 
the measure was referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform, and on June 12, 2008, our committee approved the bill by voice 
vote.

H.R. 5975 allows us to pay homage to the service of Corporal John P. 
Sigsbee who was tragically killed on January 16 while serving in Balad, 
Iraq. Corporal Sigsbee died as a result of wounds sustained from 
grenade and small-arms fire during combat operations.

Assigned to the 1st Squadron, 32nd Cavalry Regiment, 1st Brigade 
Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division out of Fort Campbell, Kentucky, 
Corporal Sigsbee joined the Army in October, 2005, and served his 
country valiantly up until the time of his death. For making the 
ultimate sacrifice of life, Corporal Sigsbee was awarded the Purple 
Heart which now rests with his parents, James and Susan Sigsbee, of 
Waterville, New York.

Mr. Speaker, as we pay tribute to this heroic American citizen, let 
us also take a moment and recollect on the thousands of men and women 
in uniform currently serving abroad in order to protect us here in the 
homeland. I ask that we all proudly commemorate both the life and the 
unfortunate death of Corporal John P. Sigsbee by passing H.R. 5975.

I reserve the balance of my time.