---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `fab6336b50385575c1c1c5810236938a`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 18 October 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, the day is finally here. Today, the 
American people will see what this body is really made of and where 
members stand on the issue of children's healthcare. Is this body 
willing to stand up to the President and override his veto? Or are my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle going to fold like a house of 
cards and follow this President right off a cliff?

The choice is easy--you are either for healthcare for 10 million 
children or you are not. You can equivocate all you want and come up 
with an excuse that is politically expedient, but when it comes down to 
it, there is no way to hide from your vote.

When that voting board lights up this afternoon, we will know and 
remember those who let 10 million children and their families down. The 
President and most of the Republicans in Congress will tell you that we 
can't afford this bill, but don't let them fool you. This bill is fully 
paid for, unlike the half a trillion dollars that we have already spent 
in Iraq.

And keep in mind, the members that vote against this bill today are 
going to turn right around and vote for $190 billion more dollars for 
the war in Iraq. Unfortunately, it's the children that end up with the 
short end of the stick. The children the President is refusing to 
insure today are the same ones that will be forced to foot the bill for 
the war in Iraq tomorrow.

But you have a chance to make things right today, to set the record 
straight. You can show your constituents and this country that you care 
about the millions of uninsured American children more than continuing 
this disastrous war.

Please, don't let these children down. They need your vote. Vote to 
override this misguided veto.