---
---

# IN HONOR AND REMEMBRANCE OF SERGEANT 1ST CLASS JASON J. FABRIZI
## `fab6930e3462388dce5c0584ea5f2e6a`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 24 July 2009`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor and remembrance of 
Sergeant 1st Class Jason J. Fabrizi who sacrificed his life while 
serving his country.

Sergeant Fabrizi was in born in Cleveland, Ohio to Mary Miller and 
Timothy Hess, both of whom were United States Marines. Jason moved to 
Florida at the age of 10, and enlisted in the U.S. Army in 1998 after 
graduating high school. He served with the 3rd Squadron, 61st Cavalry 
Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team on the 4th Infantry Division 
stationed at Fort Carson, Colorado for the past 11 years.

Sergeant Fabrizi had completed three tours in Iraq before his 
deployment into Afghanistan. Jason was a highly decorated soldier; 
earning a Purple Heart, two Bronze Stars, two Army Commendation Medals, 
as well as several more honors throughout his service in the U.S. Army. 
Sergeant Fabrizi lost his life on July 14th, 2009 when his convoy was 
attacked in the Konar Province of Afghanistan.

Madam Speaker and colleagues, please join me in honor and remembrance 
of Sergeant 1st Class Jason J. Fabrizi, who will be remembered as a 
dedicated father and national hero by not only his family, but by the 
entire country. I offer my deepest condolences to his mother, Mary 
Miller; father, Timothy Hess; wife, Kristi Kool; three sons, Jason 
Allen, Tyler Jacob and Layne Timothy; and daughter, Reagan, who is due 
in two months.
