---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `fabeb97d9de63e0105d61ef18e427f77`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 7 July 2009`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the House Republican 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information 
regarding authorizations I requested and were included as part of H.R. 
2647, National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010.

A request for the Marksmanship Skills Trainer. The funding would be 
used for procuring a portable self contained system that allows for 
multiple scenarios from training to combat skills. This is a multiple 
user system allowing for high output during times of training 
constraints. The trainers will be stationed at the various Texas Army 
National Guard facilities allowing for maximum use for the soldiers. 
The system allows for ongoing marksmanship training in a simulated 
environment without the expenditure of ammunition or need to travel to 
a weapons range. The entity to receive funding for this project is the 
Texas National Guard, 2200 West 35th Street, Austin, TX 78763.

A request for the Mobile Firing Range. The mobile firing range is a 
self contained range that allows for the firing of pistol and rifle 
systems for the Texas National Guard. Currently there is no opportunity 
to fire weapons for training or qualification without traveling to a 
certified range on a military installation. The Texas Army National 
Guard currently does not have access to any indoor ranges that can be 
used to fire the M16/M4 which is the current armament for 90% of the 
soldiers within the Texas Army National Guard. The Mobile Firing Range 
will allow soldiers to train with their assigned weapons at home 
station. This system is a training and force multiplier due to the 
negation of travel and lodging, and staging needed when conducting this 
training on a military facility. The entity to receive funding for this 
project is the Texas National Guard, 2200 West 35th Street, Austin, TX 
78763.

A request for the Visual Door Gunner Trainer (VDGT). The funding 
would be used for procuring a VDGT device that provides door gunnery 
and crew coordination training for UH-60 Blackhawk crewmembers. The 
VDGT also incorporates precision gunnery training to improve target 
engagement skills. This system is mobile and can be moved between Texas 
Army National Guard aviation facilities that have UH-60s. The system 
enables crews to train without leaving home station or flying 
additional hours. The entity to receive funding for this project is the 
Texas National Guard, 2200 West 35th Street, Austin, TX 78763.

A request for the Field Deployable Hologram Production System. The 
funding would be used for completing development of a compact 
production unit that produces 3D holographic imagery for mission 
planning and intelligence purposes for U.S. forces in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. The U.S. Army requests a self-contained, field-deployable 
EHI production system to accelerate imagery delivery to combat forces. 
The goal is a more efficient, cost effective production system that 
provides the deployed war fighter needed planning and intelligence 
capabilities on a much faster basis. The entity to receive funding for 
this project is Zebra Imaging, Inc, 9801 Metric Blvd, Austin, TX 78758.

A request for the Compact Pulsed Power Initiative. The funding would 
be used for the development of explosive- or battery-operated, compact, 
high-power radiation sources and associated antenna systems capable of 
destroying electronics used for radars, communications, computer, or 
remote detonation devices, and others that can disable car engines. The 
information gained from this research will be significant in furthering 
our nation's defense capabilities especially in the area of disabling 
and destroying IEDs. The research for this project will be conducted by 
Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway (mail stop 3121), TX 79409.

A request for the Modular Shoot House. The funding would be used for 
procuring a self contained combat scenario system for team training in 
a safe 360 degree ballistic, combat simulated environment. The Modular 
Shoot House (MSH) will be placed on Texas Army National Guard training 
facilities as determined by training needs of the geographic regions in 
the state. New combat training tasks will be


exercised using the MSH by multiple units who have building clearing as 
part of their mission essential tasks. There is currently no Texas Army 
National Guard controlled MSH. The addition of this system will greatly 
enhance training and readiness prior to unit deployment. The entity to 
receive funding for this project is the Texas National Guard, 2200 West 
35th Street, Austin, TX 78763.

Madam Speaker, pursuant to the House Republican standards on 
earmarks, I am submitting the following information for publication in 
the Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 
2997-Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010.

A request to Cooperative State Research, Education and Extension 
Service (CSRESS), Special Research Grants Account, to the Animal Fiber 
Research Program. This funding would assist in the ongoing Wool 
Research Program. This program is a partnership between the Texas 
Agriculture Experiment Station in San Angelo, TX, New Mexico State 
University and Montana State University. This program helps enhance the 
quality and quantity of wool and mohair produced in this country. In 
addition, significant efforts are being made to work with small 
ruminants as a means to control invasive brush which is a major issue 
in many parts of Texas degrading rangelands and taking precious water. 
The project is located at 7887, U.S. Highway 87N, San Angelo, Texas, 
76901.

A request to Cooperative State Research, Education and Extension 
Service (CSRESS), Special Research Grants Account to continue partial 
funding of the state of the art multidisciplinary research approach at 
the International Cotton Center at Texas Tech University. The 
International Cotton Center conducts cotton research programs for 
cotton production systems and provides market and policy analysis for 
natural fibers (cotton, wool, and mohair) in an effort to increase 
profitability and maintain viability of all segments of the U.S. cotton 
industry in an increasingly competitive and volatile international 
market. The project research would be centrally located at Texas Tech 
University, located at 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, Texas 79409.

A request to Cooperative State Research, Education and Extension 
Service (CSRESS), Special Research Grants Account, to continue partial 
funding for the Center for Food Industry Excellence at Texas Tech 
University. The Center for Food Industry Excellence is a federal and 
state supported program that conducts systematic development and 
evaluations of production, processing and preparation methods of food 
products to achieve a safer and more nutritious food supply. The 
project research would be centrally located at Texas Tech University, 
located at 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, Texas 79409.
