# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `fad11677d7caf46038fa74c0261b81d7`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, the Senate will vote on whether 
America is on the right course in Iraq, or the wrong one.

I have spent the past two years traveling all over Rhode Island, 
listening to people from my state who were angry and frustrated at this 
President's refusal to see that his policies in Iraq were wrong from 
the start, and remain wrong today. Last November, they and millions of 
Americans cast their votes for a new direction.

They sent us here to hold this President accountable: for distorting 
intelligence to serve his policy goals; for failing to give our troops 
the equipment they needed to do their jobs overseas, and failing to 
take adequate care of them when they return home; for telling our 
country the mission was accomplished when, as we've seen, the war has 
now stretched on for five long years; for now proposing to send tens of 
thousands more American soldiers into harm's way, against the wishes of 
the American people, and without a plan to bring the conflict to an 
end.

Americans know the truth: escalating the war in Iraq will not make 
that nation more secure, or bring Iraq


and its people any closer to a lasting peace. It will not make our 
nation more secure. And it is not the new direction Americans demanded.

There is a way to change course in Iraq. If we announce clearly that 
the redeployment of American troops will begin, and begin soon, that 
opens up diplomatic opportunities in Iraq, in the Middle East, and 
around the world.

When it is evident to the insurgents that America is not an army of 
occupation, the factions within the Iraqi government will be obliged--
and better able--to assume responsibility for the security and 
governance of their own nation. Iraq's neighbors will be newly 
motivated to take steps that will encourage a peaceful and secure Gulf 
region.

This binding resolution makes it clear that the situation in Iraq has 
changed since Congress authorized the use of force in Iraq in 2002. It 
states the President must begin the phased redeployment of American 
combat troops in no later than four months, with that redeployment 
completed by March 31, 2008.

The President failed to show America a new direction, and so the 
Senate will step forward to lead where he will not. I will vote yes to 
a change of course in Iraq, and I hope my colleagues will do the same.