---
---

# MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `faff3898d936e0403683e391812e2529`
`Mr. McCAIN — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I come to the Senate to comment on H.J. 
Res. 20, making continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2007 which, 
as I understand, is the pending business before the Senate.

I think most of us agree that funding the Federal Government should 
be done through the regular order, not through a patchwork of 
continuing resolutions. The reality is that all but two Federal 
agencies are being funded through a measure to which no Member is being 
permitted to offer, debate or vote on a single amendment. That is 
wrong. We are not the House of Representatives. We are not the other 
body, I say to my colleagues. We are the Senate, a deliberative body. I 
hope the Senate leadership on both sides will work to ensure we do not 
repeat this fate.

I have been in this body for a little over 20 years. I have watched, 
over those 20 years, an increasing use of parliamentary procedures--the 
so-called filling up the tree and motions for cloture filed at the same 
time the legislation is before the Senate increase to an ever-
accelerating process.

I was very disturbed about that process being exercised when my side 
of the aisle was in the leadership, and I am even more concerned as I 
watch the new majority conduct business in the Senate. I could submit 
for the record the fact of literally every measure before the Senate 
that at the same time a cloture motion is proposed, the tree is filled.

The Senate is here to debate and amend. The other body, 
understandably, has different rules. Given the mechanisms that are 
being put in place by the majority side, what is the difference? It 
seems to me that 20 years ago--and I would ask my friend from Virginia, 
who has been here considerably longer than I have--the routine was a 
piece of legislation would be before the Senate, there would be 
amendments proposed, debated, with second-degree amendments, if 
necessary. And the process was something where literally every Member 
of the Senate, if a Member so chose, could come to the floor and debate 
and amend and improve the legislation, if that was a Member's desire.

Where are we now? We file cloture. We vote on cloture. We stand 
around for 30 hours or so. And then we vote up or down. This is a very 
dangerous process we are going through. So now we are examining a bill 
which funds all but two Federal agencies in a measure which no Member 
is permitted to offer, debate or vote on a single amendment. That is 
not why I came here. That is not why. We are sent here--we are sent 
here--to express the views and ambitions and hopes and dreams of our 
constituents.

I have been in discussion with several other Members about how this 
trend continues to accelerate and literally deprive this institution 
from being described as not the greatest deliberative body in the world 
but a deliberative body.

And I say to the leadership, please sit down and work these things 
out. Have a reasonable number of amendments. Have debate. Agree to time 
agreements. Agree to time agreements. I had several amendments to this 
bill for which I would have agreed to an hour time agreement, which 
would have been plenty of time to debate the amendments and render the 
Senate's judgment, which I would have respected whether it succeeded or 
failed.

Now, there are many of us who are very unhappy because we think we 
could have improved this legislation, which covers all but two--two--
Federal agencies of the entire Federal Government. And we are going to 
consider an up-or-down vote on it. That is not right. It is not fair to 
the American people. And it is not fair to the hallowed traditions of 
this institution.

I do not know exactly what to do about it. But there are some of us 
who


are looking for ways, perhaps, to express our dissatisfaction on this 
issue. In all deference to my dear friend from Virginia, all I asked 
for on this issue of the ''surge'' or ''change in strategy'' in Iraq 
was 2 hours of debate on our amendment, with a time agreement and a 
vote. I do not think that is a lot to ask. I do not think that is a 
great deal. I do not think that is a huge request. The two leaders 
sitting down together could have--and, by the way, I know my friend 
from Virginia supported that. I am not in any way denigrating----