---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `fb22837262cc78107dfb715d28c37aae`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 1 February 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I support the bipartisan compromise 
legislation on Iraq. I urge my colleagues to support it as well. It is 
a stunning repudiation of the President's misguided strategy in Iraq, 
and it will put the Senate squarely on record in opposition to the 
surge. It is a clarion call for change and a vote of no confidence in 
the President's failed policy.

It was wrong for the President to take the country to war when we 
did, the way we did, and for the false reasons we were given. It is 
wrong to compound that mistake now by sending tens of thousands of 
additional American troops into the middle of a civil war now taking 
place.

The American people oppose this escalation. Many generals oppose it. 
A bipartisan majority of Congress opposes it as well. I especially 
commend our colleague, Senator Warner, for his extraordinary service to 
the Nation and making this compromise possible.

Could our message to the White House be any louder or clearer? I 
intend, however, to press for binding action that will prevent the 
surge, unless the President changes course. If he doesn't, I will seek 
a vote at the first appropriate opportunity. It is wrong for the 
President to escalate this war and send more American soldiers into the 
cauldron of civil war.

We are very hopeful that through the course of the afternoon we are 
going to be finally able to get a vote on the increase in the minimum 
wage from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour. This is the 9th day we have been on 
this particular legislation. We have had over $240 billion worth of 
increased tax preferences that have been suggested and recommended--
always on the increase on the minimum wage.



This is not a very complex issue. We have not raised the minimum wage 
in over 10 years. The purchasing power of the minimum wage has gone 
down and down, and even with the increase now to $7.25 an hour, it will 
only be restored to the purchasing power it had 10 years ago.

This is an issue of fairness. It is about people who work and work 
hard. It is about men and women of dignity who want to do a good job 
and also want to provide for their children. So I am very hopeful we 
will have a chance this afternoon to move ahead and vote. We, on this 
side, have been prepared to vote on that increase from the first day. 
The House of Representatives only took 4 hours. The Democrats were 
joined by 80 Republicans to increase the minimum wage.

But over here, we have had 9 days of debate on the minimum wage, with 
a host of different amendments and still, outside of cloture, we would 
have 96 amendments that would have been offered by our friends on that 
side.

I saw yesterday that the President of the United States went to Wall 
Street and made a speech about how good everything was in terms of the 
American economy. I noticed that. I read through the speech. He was 
very robustly cheered by Wall Street during his recitation of some of 
the facts of what has been happening in the American economy. But 
although the economy has worked very well for Wall Street--I don't know 
of anybody who is doubting that--it is a different situation on Main 
Street. We have seen and heard, during the course of this debate, from 
many of our colleagues who related many of the stories they witnessed 
firsthand as they campaigned in their States and as they supported the 
initiatives that took place in some six States across the country. 
Rather than jobs that were going to lift you out of poverty, they are 
ending up being jobs that keep you in poverty. A minimum wage job was 
never meant to keep you in poverty. That is what it is doing today.

To review what our situation is, looking at the growth of poverty in 
the United States, these are some of the figures that were not included 
in the President's speech yesterday. Between 2000 and 2005, 5.4 million 
more Americans are in poverty in this Bush economy. This is in the last 
5 years, from 2000 to 2005. What is more distressing is the number of 
children who are now living in poverty. This is the other side of the 
economic coin. This is not Wall Street; this is what is happening in 
communities all across our country. These are census figures, as of 
August 2006. We have 1.3 million more children who are living in 
poverty. We have not seen a reduction in the number of children in 
poverty; we have seen an increase in the number of children in poverty. 
This has followed quite a series of economic policies that have brought 
us to where we are at the present time. We saw that between 1947 and 
1973--to put this administration's economic policies in some 
perspective because I think it is useful to try to find out exactly 
what it is and to understand it better. Rather than taking one speech 
at a time, why don't we look at what has been happening to the economy 
over the period of recent years.

This chart reflects statistics from 1947 to 1973, over a 25-year 
period, and these indicators are the five different quintiles of income 
for the American economy, with the lowest at 20 percent. What we are 
seeing is that all of the different economic groups rose and moved 
together. Actually, the ones that rose the most were those at the 
lowest part of the economic ladder. But what this chart is saying is 
that the economy of the United States of America was working for 
everyone during this 25-year period. Everyone. Everyone across the 
board was benefiting from the expanding economy.

If we look at 1973 to 2000, we begin to see the growth of these great 
disparities. This is from the Economic Policy Institute, and these are 
figures from 1973 to 2000. It was interesting that in the President's 
speech he talked about where we were 25 years ago. Of course, 25 years 
ago is when President Reagan was President, and this is what we find, 
which is right in the middle of that period and when this major 
disparity started to grow. This would be, obviously, starting in 1980, 
and this is 1973 to 2000.

The previous chart showed them all about even, with the lowest 
growing the fastest. Now we are seeing the flow line and the top moving 
along the fastest. And if we break this out even further, between 1973 
and 2000, we find this growth disparity starting under the Republicans. 
It is 1980. The President made the reference to 25 years ago, and that 
is when the growth of this disparity started, and that is due to 
economic policies. Economic policies. You just can't get away from it.

If we look from 2000 to 2004, this chart reflects what has happened. 
Take the line that goes right across, and we find out that low-income 
Americans are actually losing income and falling the fastest. This is a 
Census Bureau historical income table. These are the governmental 
figures. So this isn't a speech, these are governmental figures. It 
shows this extraordinary growth in these disparities, and the people 
who have suffered the most have been children and also those at the 
lower end of the economic ladder, who are the minimum wage workers. And 
that is what we are trying to change on the floor of the Senate, to 
give them a break and give them a raise to $7.25.

We can see what has happened as a result of these economic policies 
of the recent past. These are the UNICEF child poverty figures, and we 
see across the industrial world that the United States has the highest 
child poverty rate, the highest child poverty rate of any industrial 
country in the world. So we have this idea on Wall Street that we can 
say everything is hunky-dory and yet be a nation where we have the 
highest child poverty rate in the world. And Lord only knows that this 
weekend probably every person in this Chamber will be making a speech 
about how children are our future and we have to invest in them, all of 
which is absolutely true, but we have been failing in our 
responsibility to look after what has been happening to the children in 
our country.

One might say: Well, this is all very interesting, but what has the 
minimum wage got to do with any of this, Senator? It is interesting, 
but the increase in the minimum wage doesn't solve these issues. And I 
agree with the President that we have to do more in terms of education. 
We have to do more in terms of training and in health and in nutrition 
for these children. There is a great deal more we have to do for 
children. It all starts, obviously, in the home, but schools are next, 
and then communities. We all have to do a great deal more, but these 
are rather startling indictments.

Look at where the poverty rate is in the United States. In States 
that have a high minimum wage, they have lower poverty rates. This is 
directly related to the subject matter here.

We have talked generally about economic trends. We have talked about 
the growth in poverty and the growth in child poverty. So one might 
ask: What can we do about it? Well, one major step forward we can take 
is doing something about the minimum wage. Let's prove it.

Look at this chart. These are States with higher minimum wages. They 
are the States that have voted for an increase in the minimum wage over 
the Federal minimum wage. Again, these are the Census Bureau's figures. 
The national poverty rate we see is the red line, and the States that 
have a higher minimum wage than the national average have less child 
poverty. Less child poverty.

This chart reflects poverty rates generally, with the next chart 
reflecting lower child poverty rates. Here is the increase in the 
minimum wage, and it shows where child poverty is. The other chart 
showed families living in poverty. This is what happens in States with 
a higher minimum wage. Again, these are all Census Bureau figures.

So we can do something about child poverty by increasing the minimum 
wage. And there are many other things we can do, such as increase the 
earned-income tax credit, support the CHIP, Medicaid expansion, and 
other types of outreach programs. But one thing we know we can do, and 
what we have before the Senate this afternoon, is the issue of whether 
we are going to make progress in reducing child poverty. That is the 
issue. That is one of the significant outcomes of the vote this 
afternoon.

We are seeing at the present time, according to the USDA, that we 
have 12.4


million children who are hungry under the Bush economy. This particular 
line is left out of the speeches on Wall Street. We have 12.4 million 
children who are going hungry every single day according to the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture. But here we see what happens with these 6.4 
million children who will benefit from this increase in the minimum 
wage.

This is the spinoff from the increase in the minimum wage. We are 
going to get better attendance in our schools, better concentration, 
and better performance. We have seen that time and time again. We are 
going to get higher test scores and higher graduation rates; children 
with stronger immune systems, better health, fewer expensive hospital 
visits, and fewer run-ins with the juvenile justice system.

We should go back and look at the Perry preschool programs. The 
studies reflect that when we make these investments in children that we 
will see every one of these kinds of indicators come out in a positive 
way. And increasing the minimum wage, as I mentioned, will have an 
impact on 6.4 million children.

I will make just one final point, Madam President. We have 50,000 
spouses of our military who are working today, 50,000 of them and their 
husbands, primarily husbands but also wives, who are serving in the 
Armed Forces of the United States of America, and many of them are in 
Iraq or Afghanistan or served in Iraq and Afghanistan, and they are 
earning $5.15 or slightly more an hour today. So when we ask what can 
we do to indicate to our men and women in uniform that we have some 
respect for their families, well, we have important responsibilities to 
their families. We can't expect we are going to have top-notch fighting 
personnel if they are worried about the economic condition of their 
families. Any military leader will tell you that.


So we have a responsibility to them because they are part of our 
national security, but we have a responsibility to them also if we are 
interested in having the most efficient kind of fighting force. Yet we 
have 50,000 members whose families are out there earning $5.15 or 
slightly more an hour. That can change. That will change. We can 
increase the benefits that reach these families.

Hopefully, we have had a good opportunity to talk about these issues. 
At earlier times in the debate we had questions about, well, what is 
going to be the impact on small business. We showed the charts where 
they had increased the minimum wage in some States and, actually, the 
numbers of small businesses and the expansion of small business and the 
profitability of small business had all been enhanced.

We had the question: Well, if we increase the minimum wage, will 
there be an increasing loss of employment? We demonstrated here the 
best answer to that is what has happened in the past. At other times, 
historically, when we saw this kind of increase in the minimum wage, we 
actually saw the unemployment figures continue to strip downward and 
the employment figures continued to drift upward. Those are the 
statistics. We put them out here and we haven't been challenged on any 
of these figures.

We also hear, although not a great deal during the course of this 
particular debate but in other debates, that this action will be 
inflationary. So we put the chart up that showed if we provide an 
increase in the minimum wage, in terms of the payroll, that the 
increase is just one-fifth of 1 percent of total payroll in this 
country. So the idea that it is going to add to inflation is basically 
misleading. Of course, it doesn't compare to the kinds of increases we 
have seen in a lot of these corporate salaries. I wish we had heard 
complaints about some of that as we were talking about the pressures of 
increased payout.

The arguments in favor of the increase are compelling, they are 
overwhelming, and, hopefully, we are going to have an opportunity this 
afternoon to finally get, after 10 years, an increase in the minimum 
wage. We have been standing virtually in the same place for 10 years 
trying to get an increase. We had 16 days of debate on the increase in 
the minimum wage outside of the last 9 days. So that is 25 days of 
discussion on the floor of the Senate as to whether we are going to 
increase the minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour over, basically, 
a 2-year period. It has taken us all that time to get the Senate of the 
United States to hopefully vote positively on that proposal, but I am 
very hopeful that will be the case later in the afternoon.

Madam President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.