---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `fb2613e9f076f389c7097ebfb98b5b69`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President I rise, regrettably, to oppose the 
conference report for the fiscal year 2010 National Defense 
Authorization Act. For the record, this will be the first Defense 
authorization bill I have voted against in my 15 years in Congress.

There are many provisions in this bill with which I agree and 
strongly agree that represent major steps forward in support of our men 
and women in uniform and the national security responsibilities of the 
United States. For example, the bill includes a significant pay raise 
for our troops, re-authorizes numerous bonuses and special pays, 
authorizes billions of dollars of much needed military construction, 
both in the United States as well as overseas, and authorizes $6.7 
billion for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles or MRAPs.

Also, the bill includes the Military and Overseas Voting Empowerment 
Act, which I worked on in conjunction with Senators Schumer, Ben 
Nelson, Cornyn and Bennett and which was cosponsored by over half this 
body. The MOVE Act is one of the most substantive and comprehensive 
military and overseas voting reforms we have seen in years. It will fix 
a significant problem we have had in this country, that of the men and 
women of our military; who are putting their lives in


harm's way being denied the ability to, No. 1, have the opportunity to 
vote, and No. 2, to have their vote counted.

However, the bill includes at least three provisions which I strongly 
oppose, and for those reasons I cannot support this final bill.

First, the bill includes hate crimes legislation, which I firmly 
believe is unnecessary, irresponsible, and certainly not germane to 
this bill. There is little evidence that indicates that violent crimes, 
motivated by hate, go unpunished in the United States. Every single 
State has criminal laws that prohibit the antisocial behavior addressed 
by hate crimes legislation, including laws against murder, rape, arson, 
assault, and battery.

I oppose the creation of Federal hate crimes legislation for several 
reasons. First, I do not believe the Federal Government should 
interfere with the criminal laws already on the books in our States.

Second, this hate crimes legislation would establish a protected 
class of crime victims who would receive special protection under the 
law.

Finally, we already have laws to prosecute individuals who commit 
violent crimes. Those people guilty of violent crimes against anyone 
should and will be prosecuted under existing law and should be punished 
to the hilt when found guilty. For all these reasons, I strongly oppose 
the hate crimes legislation in this bill.


Secondly, the bill contains no funding for the procurement of 
additional F-22s. On May 19, 2009, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, 
General Schwartz, affirmed under oath that 243 is the right number of 
F-22s to have in our inventory. Nevertheless, inclusion of additional 
F-22 funding received a veto threat from the administration and funding 
was stripped out of the Senate bill after an unbelievable lobbying 
effort coming out of the Pentagon and the White House.

I readily acknowledge there is a difference of opinion on this issue 
and that others do not necessarily share my views on this subject. 
However, what I will not acknowledge is that support for additional F-
22s is simply an example of doing business as usual and the influence 
of special interests. Congress is entitled to disagree with the 
executive branch on significant procurement and policy decisions, and 
there are countless examples of where we have done so and history has 
proven Congress to be right. Time will tell, but the F-22 may very well 
be an example of where the supporters of the program were, without 
question, correct.

I hope we are never put in a position as a country where we once 
again must fight to maintain air dominance, but there is not a single 
weapon in our inventory that ensures that we will maintain air 
dominance other than the F-22. The F-35 is a great weapon system, but 
we now know it is going to be delayed by 2 years.

It was kind of interesting that the announcement on the 2-year delay 
on the F-35 came out about 3 or 4 days after the final vote on the 
Defense authorization bill on this floor. But the F-35 is an air-to-
ground weapon system that will not guarantee us the air superiority the 
F-22 will. If we are going to rely on 187 F-22s from an air dominance 
standpoint in every potential sector of the world, against every 
potential adversary, it is simply not enough. General Schwartz was 
right when he said 243 is a more correct number. I believe stopping 
production at 187 puts our Nation at high risk in the near to midterm, 
and there is no reason our Nation should accept that amount of risk 
given our global responsibilities.

Third, section 1041 of the bill provides for the transfer of 
Guantanamo detainees to the United States. While the bill specifies 
conditions for transfer as well as requiring a plan for each detainee 
who is transferred; the bill nevertheless allows for the transfer of 
those detainees. The conditions for the transfer of those detainees are 
similar to those that are present in the fiscal year 2010 Department of 
Homeland Security appropriations bill which I voted against earlier 
this week.

I made a much more detailed statement at that time about my reasons 
why I was voting against that bill relative to this issue of the 
transfer of Guantanamo detainees to the United States, but that bill 
authorized the transfer of detainees to the United States for the 
purpose of prosecuting the detainees or for detaining them during legal 
proceedings. This bill allows the transfer of detainees not just for 
that purpose but for any purpose. This will allow those detainees to 
have access to U.S. criminal courts, which I strongly oppose, because 
these are individuals who were arrested on the battlefield, not by the 
FBI or local police or any other law enforcement agency inside the 
United States. These are battlefield combatants. This also goes against 
the will of the American people and opens up the possibility that these 
detainees may one day be released in the United States. Therefore, I 
cannot support this provision in the underlying bill.

Mr. President, I strongly support our troops, and I support the 
missions we have asked them to carry out. Shortly, I will be going back 
to Afghanistan for my third trip. I also have been to Iraq on eight 
different occasions, and I get very emotional and excited about the 
opportunity to look our men and women in the eye, with their boots on 
the ground, and tell them how much we Americans appreciate the great 
job they are doing. I am going to continue to support them in every way 
possible. But the fact is, here we have provisions in a Defense 
authorization bill that go against the will of the American people and 
that, frankly, don't have much of anything to do with our troops in 
theater as well as our troops here.

So, Mr. President, regrettably, I am going to be opposing this bill 
on the grounds of the issues I have outlined.

I yield the floor.