# TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST  HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008--
## `fb286d944a89c32b022935ad5fc6f3fc`
`Mr. DODD — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, I rise in strong support of the Global 
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria reauthorization bill and urge its 
immediate passage. As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee and chairman of its Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Peace 
Corps, and Narcotics Affairs, I can say that of all the global 
challenges we face, few are more daunting in scope or immediate in need 
than the scourge of HIV/AIDS. In so many parts of the world, the global 
HIV/AIDS pandemic threatens to undermine all of our other efforts to 
bring stability and prosperity to the world.

As a result of the original law Congress passed in 2003, the United 
States has provided lifesaving drugs to nearly 1.5 million men, women 
and children; supported care for nearly 7 million people, including 2.7 
million orphans and vulnerable children; and prevented an estimated 
150,000 infant infections around the world. Through this law alone, we 
as a nation have shown the world that Americans are a compassionate, 
caring and generous people. It is a spirit I know to be true throughout 
our remarkable country. Our sustained commitment to the treatment, 
prevention, and care of HIV/AIDS globally through this law has helped 
us make great strides toward helping repair our Nation's image overseas 
so badly damaged by the war in Iraq. So, I tell my colleagues, the eyes 
of the world are upon us. We must reauthorize this program and we 
cannot wait another day to do it.

I want to thank and commend the chairman and ranking member of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Biden and Senator Lugar, 
for crafting this bipartisan legislation that will continue the success 
of the 2003 law and make many important improvements to the program. I 
would like to take a minute to highlight a few of what I believe are 
the most critical improvements. Following that, I want to go into a bit 
more detail about provisions in this bill that I am proud to have 
authored, along with my colleague Senator Gordon Smith, relating to the 
prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV and the treatment of 
children living with this disease.

To begin with, the bill increases the authorization of appropriations 
to $50 billion, allowing for incremental increases in funding over the 
course of the next 5 years. HIV/AIDS killed more than 2 million people 
last year, including 330,000 children under the age of 15, and an 
estimated 2.5 million people including 420,000 children were newly 
infected. These numbers are staggering. Absent an increase in our 
funding commitment, we may well lose all the hard-fought gains we've 
made against this disease.

The bill also eliminates the restrictive ''one-third earmark'' 
limiting prevention funding to abstinence-until-marriage programs. The 
Institute of Medicine and the Government Accountability Office, GAO, 
both concluded that the one-third abstinence earmark unduly limited 
flexibility for the people implementing HIV/AIDS programs on the 
ground. In fact, the GAO found that in order to meet the one-third 
spending requirement, country teams reported having to divert funds 
from prevention of mother-to-child transmission services.

The bill sets several key targets for HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment 
and care as well as targets to expand the healthcare workforce in order 
to help achieve staffing levels recommended by the World Health 
Organization. The bill moves from a reliance on a healthcare workforce 
that was already in place in the developing world under the original 
law to investing new funds to train new healthcare workers and 
paraprofessionals, especially nurses and doctors, under the 
reauthorization bill. The various targets in the bill will help move 
the program toward sustainability over the long term. That can only be 
achieved by a bold, sustained effort to train and retain new healthcare 
workers, including adding new workers to the most rural of areas.

The legislation repeals the provision in current law barring the 
admission into the U.S. of individuals who are HIV positive or have 
AIDS. This policy is an international embarrassment and its repeal 
should be maintained in the final bill. Because of this law, the 
President has to seek a waiver from his own State Department to invite 
guests to White House events related to this program. The U.S. cannot 
even host an international conference on HIV/AIDS. The time to repeal 
this statutory ban


that discriminates solely on the basis of an HIV/AIDS diagnosis is long 
past due.

I would like to take a moment now to highlight a couple of key 
provisions included in this bill that were drawn from legislation I 
introduced earlier this year with my colleague, Senator Gordon Smith. 
Our bill, the Global Pediatric HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment Act, 
and the bill before us today set a target for the prevention and 
treatment of mother-to-child transmission of HIV that, within 5 years, 
will reach 80 percent of pregnant women in those countries most 
affected by HIV/AIDS in which the U.S. has such programs.

The bill also calls for integrating care and treatment with 
prevention of mother-to-child transmission programs, increasing access 
of women in these programs to maternal and child health services, and a 
timeline for expanding access to prevention of mother-to-child regimes. 
The ultimate goal of these policy improvements is to improve the health 
outcomes of HIV-affected women and their families and to improve 
followup and continuity of care.

I also want to thank the chairman and ranking member of the Foreign 
Relations Committee for including an amendment I offered in committee 
that will convene a prevention of mother-to-child expert panel which 
will report to the Office of the Global AIDS Coordinator and the public 
within a year on a plan for the scale-up of mother-to-child 
transmission prevention services. This provision was not included in 
the House-passed bill but I urge my colleagues to maintain it in the 
bill that is sent to the President.

We can prevent the transmission of HIV mother-to-child. We know how 
to do it. In the industrialized world, the standard of care involving a 
complex drug regimen has reduced mother-to-child transmission rates to 
as low as 2 percent. By the end of 2007, 34 percent of HIV-infected 
pregnant women around the world received the medicines they need to 
prevent transmission of HIV to their babies, a substantial increase 
from 14 percent in 2005. While this is considerable progress, still 
almost two-thirds of HIV-positive pregnant women did not receive the 
medicines necessary to prevent the transmission of HIV to their baby. 
That is why the target in the bill is so crucial.

I am in the unique position of serving on both the Foreign Relations 
Committee and the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee where 
I have spent many years working to improve the health and welfare of 
children and families. We have made great strides through the Ryan 
White CARE Act program in this country toward ensuring that children 
and their families receive adequate, family-centered care and treatment 
for HIV/AIDS. In the United States, we have reached a point where a 
child living with HIV/AIDS no longer faces certain death. Thanks to 
antiretroviral, ARV, therapy, many children born infected with HIV/AIDS 
now have the opportunity to grow up healthy. However, long-term 
survival remains a dream that eludes most of the 2.5 million HIV-
infected children around the world.

Globally, HIV/AIDS infection rates in children continue to outpace 
the rate at which they are treated. Every day approximately 1,100 
children across the globe are infected with HIV, the vast majority 
through mother-to-child transmission during pregnancy, labor or 
delivery or soon after through breastfeeding. Approximately 90 percent 
of these infections occur in Africa.

With no medical intervention, HIV-positive mothers have a 25 to 30 
percent chance of passing the virus to their babies during pregnancy 
and childbirth. Without proper care and treatment, half of these newly-
infected children will die before their second birthday and 75 percent 
will die before their fifth. Sadly, although children represent close 
to 16 percent of HIV infections, they are only 10 percent of those 
receiving treatment.

That is why the bill before us today also includes a 5-year target 
that the number of children receiving care and treatment for HIV/AIDS 
is proportionate to their infection rate in each country funded under 
this program. One cannot lag behind the other and, with passage of this 
bill, they won't.

I thank the chairman and ranking member again for working with me to 
include these vital provisions for children and families. I believe 
they will have an enormous impact on the long-term health and survival 
of the millions of men, women and children affected by HIV/AIDS.

I would be remiss if I did not take a moment to highlight an area 
where I believe the bill regrettably does not incorporate the lessons 
learned over the past 5 years about addressing HIV/AIDS, and that is 
the lack of language in the bill facilitating linkages between HIV/AIDS 
activities and family planning activities.

I recognize that Members have strong feelings on this issue. But 
family planning providers serve millions of women in developing 
countries that are now at the center of the global HIV/AIDS pandemic. 
Moreover, it is critical that this program continue to support 
voluntary family planning counseling and referral as a core component 
of prevention of mother-to-child transmission and other HIV-service 
programs. I look forward to working to ensure that this program links 
HIV/AIDS activities and family planning activities.

With that, I urge my colleagues to act quickly to pass this bill to 
reauthorize a program that has helped save the lives of millions of 
men, women and children. The President has asked Congress to pass the 
bill. The leading organizations advocating for reauthorization of this 
program have called on Congress to pass the bill. The House has already 
passed the bill. It is time for the Senate to do the same. I implore my 
colleagues to put aside their differences and support passage of this 
bill.