# None
## `fb3d878caa212fc28a9c354b976bc1ab`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise tonight to talk about the war in 
Iraq, from two different vantage points. One, the first vantage point, 
is from the perspective of those who have served--some of our fighting 
men and women who happen to be in the Reserves. I also wish to talk 
about a victim of this war and some thoughts I have in my heart today 
about the war and about this particular victim and what it tells about 
our country. First of all, with regard to a particular problem and then 
some legislation I introduced to correct it.

We have a policy right now, which I would regard as unfair, that if 
it is fully implemented would hurt numerous Army Reserve members and 
consequently our national security. Last year, the Army implemented a 
new policy whereby Reserve members who were called to Active Duty for a 
period of time exceeding 180 days, will be given an option--an option 
of a permanent change in station assignment or a waiver request to 
receive a significantly reduced per diem rate for the locality to which 
they are temporarily assigned. This could tremendously disadvantage 
those who happen to be serving in the Army Reserves.

While on its face it might seem harmless because it gets fairly 
technical, its unintended ramifications could be very costly. Reserve 
Members from across Pennsylvania and across the country have described 
this policy as a hardship that could potentially cause future problems 
for retention and enlistment rates. For instance, under this new 
policy, an Army reservist living in Philadelphia who is deployed for a 
temporary mobilization, as short as 9 or 12 months, for example--and 
this is an increasingly common occurrence because of the strain the war 
in Iraq has placed on our military, but this particular example means 
that person could face the financial necessity of selling his or her 
home if he or she is unable to afford to maintain both their primary 
residence and their temporary housing on a reduced per diem rate. In 
other words, they are not being helped in that interim period of, say, 
9 to 12 months. This is not only a story about Pennsylvania, but it is 
a story that could be replicated, unfortunately, across the country.

I introduced legislation yesterday entitled ''The Reserve Residence 
Protection Act of 2008,'' which would correct this fundamentally unfair 
policy. The legislation would provide a basic allowance for housing to 
cover the costs of maintaining the primary residence of National Guard 
or Reserve members when they are mobilized outside their local area.

In addition, it would pay a lower second basic allowance at their 
mission location, if onbase housing is not provided. In January, when 
we passed the fiscal year 2007 National Defense Authorization Act, we 
passed a provision providing for the second basic housing allowance to 
protect the residence of Reserve members without dependents, but we 
left out--it is hard to believe this but we did--this body left out 
members with dependents. So if you had dependents and you are in this 
dilemma, you were left out. This legislation corrects this very 
important oversight.



Our Nation today is relying more than ever on National Guard and 
Reserve troops to fulfill our missions around the world and especially 
to carry on the work these men and women are doing in Iraq. Without 
these citizen soldiers placing their lives on the line to contribute to 
our national security, we could not carry out all our vital missions. 
National Guard and Reserve members know the sacrifices they need to 
make whether they enlist, but no Reserve members should be forced to 
choose--as they are now, if this policy is implemented without the bill 
passing--no Reserve member should be forced to choose selling his or 
her primary residence in order to fulfill a temporary mobilization 
order or deciding not to reenlist due to this unnecessary burden. In 
addition to being unfair in the first instance, it acts as a 
disincentive to those who might want to give even more service to their 
country.

When citizen soldiers enlist, they sign agreements to train and 
deploy when they are called up. That is the commitment they make to us 
and to our national security. However, I do not believe, and no one in 
this Chamber believes, that this is a one-way street or a one-way deal. 
The Nation, at the end of this bargain, promises to acknowledge their 
unique role as citizen soldiers and to aid in the transition between 
Active and Reserve Duty.

I am proud to have introduced the Reserve Residence Protection Act of 
2008 because it will ensure that America is keeping its promise, 
keeping our promise to those who serve in our National Guard and 
Reserve, and we are keeping our promise to their families as well.

In conclusion tonight, I wish to talk about the war for a few 
moments, from the perspective of one victim, but I think this one 
victim tells a very dear and sad story. Today's Washington Post had a 
picture on the front above the headline. The headline read: ''U.S. Role 
Deepens in Sadr City.'' The subheadline reads, ''Fierce Battle Against 
Shiite Militiamen Echoes First Years Of War.''

I would say this in the context of where we are today. Tomorrow is 
the fifth anniversary of President Bush declaring, ''Mission 
Accomplished.'' That is one thing we are thinking about today and 
tomorrow--all the time that has passed, all the trauma to our country 
and to the people of Iraq since then. But also we note, in yesterday's 
press, in the month of April, as of April 29, yesterday, 44 Americans 
died in Iraq, the highest number since September of 2007.

So why do I say that in the context of this story? The story, which 
is an ominous sign for what is happening in Sadr City with regard to 
our troops--and we have seen the loss of life this week. But above that 
story is this horrific picture. I know you may not be able to see it 
from a distance, but many have seen it today. I will read the caption 
before I show the picture.

The caption reads: ''Ali Hussein is pulled from the rubble of his 
home after a U.S. airstrike in Baghdad's Sadr City. The 2-year-old died 
at a hospital.''

The picture depicts two men, one holding this 2-year-old child above 
his head. The 2-year-old, this child, would look like any child in 
America with the kind of sandals you can connect with Velcro. He has 
shorts on and a shirt.

Unfortunately, I know you cannot see it from here, unfortunately for 
this child, who later died, apparently when this picture was taken he 
is still alive, he looks at that moment, in fact, dead. His eyes are 
closed, his mouth is open. You can see the soot or the dust from an 
explosion covering his body. So at that moment he had not died, but he 
died a short time after. And what does this mean? Well, it means a lot 
of things. It means this war grinds on, and that the lives of our 
soldiers, the effect on their families, and we see other victims--we do 
not see pictures like this very often of children dying in Iraq.

This is not the fault of any one person or any side of the aisle 
here. It is something we have got to be more cognizant of, especially 
in the context of this raging debate we are having in America about our 
economy. And it is so important that we have a debate about our 
economy. It is so important that we focus on those who have lost their 
jobs, focus on those who have been devastated by the loss of their 
homes, focus on the increasingly difficult challenge that people have 
paying to fill their gas tank; all of the horrific and traumatic 
economic circumstances we face.

But as that debate is taking place, we are still at war. We still 
have soldiers coming home who, as Lincoln said, in his second inaugural 
when he spoke of ''him who has borne the battle and his widow and his 
orphan.''

So many soldiers are coming home either maimed or coming home dead 
for their final rest. And even victims in Iraq, young victims such as 
this young boy, 2 years old. He lost his life in an airstrike. So 
whether it is a 2-year-old in Sadr City who happened to be Iraqi or 
whether it is a 2-year-old boy or girl here in America who lost their 
mother or their father in Iraq serving our country, we have to remind 
ourselves that this anniversary challenges all of us to do all we can 
to bring this conflict to an end.

No one has a corner on the market of truth. No one knows the only way 
to do this. But we have to continue to worry about it and think about 
this war and its victims, and we have to figure out a way to get our 
troops out of this civil war.

As we do that, unfortunately, these pictures of the victims, whether 
they are nameless and faceless, or whether they are, in fact, 
identified, as this poor child was identified, must be reminders to all 
of us that we have a lot of unfinished business in the Senate and in 
Washington when it comes to the policy that has led to the loss of life 
we have seen here in America.

In my home State of Pennsylvania, like the Presiding Officer's, Ohio, 
we are up to 184 deaths and more than 1,200 wounded, in many cases 
grievously, permanently, irreparably wounded.

So this picture reminds us that we have a lot of work to do when it 
comes to the policy as it relates to the war in Iraq.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.