# HONORING BRIAN JAMES IVORY
## `fb4508d1d73f93d49cf325d7464f7d28`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 28 February 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. Madam Speaker, we are all so proud on both sides of the 
aisle of the work that our servicemembers are doing in military 
theaters abroad, in Iraq and Afghanistan and so many places around the 
world. And we should be just as proud of the work they do when they 
come home.

I rise today to share with my colleagues the extraordinary heroism of 
Brian James Ivory. Mr. Ivory was a very proud member of the United 
States Marine Corps. He served in Iraq. He crewed aircraft flying in 
and out of some very dangerous places.

He was also stationed in North Carolina where he assisted in search 
and rescue missions, and he came home to Long Island when his 
deployment ended.

On December 17, he was driving home from work at night and he saw a 
vehicle in front of him hit a utility pole and erupt into flames. This 
young man, who had already served and sacrificed for his country, who 
had already paid his dues, rather than driving on and just calling the 
police, stopped his car, called the authorities and then pulled the 
driver out of the car, risking his life one more time, not in Iraq, but 
on the Long Island Expressway.

I want to commend this gentleman for his heroism. This is a story 
that I know is not unique. The point here is that we not simply 
celebrate the sacrifices and the heroism of our servicemembers when 
they go abroad to fight our battles, but we also keep in mind their 
bravery, their courage, their commitment, their dedication, their 
loyalty to protecting human life when they return home.
