# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `fb5f2897c4286e4b0ea9e8d32844eb6c`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I salute the Senator from Colorado for 
his leadership, initiative, and patriotism, and the way he is 
approaching the foremost issue facing our country: Where do we go from 
here in Iraq?

There is too much partisan game playing on the issue of Iraq. We owe 
it to our country and our troops to find a bipartisan consensus to 
support where we go from here. We need a political solution in 
Washington, DC, as much as we need one in Baghdad. We need to get out 
of the combat business in Iraq and into the support, training, and 
equipment business as soon as we honorably can.

That is why Senator Salazar and I have drafted legislation to 
implement the recommendations of the bipartisan Baker-Hamilton Iraq 
Study Group.

As the Senator said, we will introduce our legislation after Congress 
and the President have worked out the Iraq supplemental appropriations 
bill. We invite our colleagues--both Democrats and Republicans--to join 
us. We believe the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group offer the 
best opportunity for a bipartisan consensus on a new course in Iraq.

In fact, these recommendations seem to already be guiding the 
President's efforts and the efforts of those on the other side who were 
calling for change.

For example, the administration has begun to act on these 
recommendations by increasing the number of troops embedded with Iraqi 
forces, using milestones to help chart progress, and by meeting with 
Iraq's neighbors, including Iran and Syria. The President's national 
security adviser has pointed to the Baker-Hamilton report as authority 
for the surge of troops in Baghdad.

Just last week, the President himself told the Associated General 
Contractors of America at their convention that he liked what Baker and 
Hamilton had to say. ''It is something we should seriously consider. 
Their idea was that, at some point in time, it makes sense to have a 
U.S. presence configured this way,'' the President said. ''It is an 
interesting idea.''

At the same time, Democratic proposals in Congress have also been 
guided by the ISG report, for example, working on milestones for 
improvement in Iraq, limiting the role of the United States to one of 
training, equipping, and counterterrorism operations, and stating as a 
goal a drawdown of combat forces by March of next year.

In short, the seeds of bipartisan consensus about how the United 
States should go forward in Iraq are best found in the Iraq Study Group 
report.

Former Secretary of State Jim Baker and former Congressman Lee 
Hamilton prefaced their report by saying this:




 Success depends on the unity of the American people in a 


 time of political polarization. Americans can and must enjoy 


 the right of robust debate within a democracy. Yet, U.S. 


 foreign policy is doomed to failure--as is any course of 


 action in Iraq--if not supported by a broad, sustained 


 consensus. The aim of our report is to move our country 


 toward such a consensus.


Yesterday and today, I talked with Secretary Baker and Congressman 
Hamilton. Each said the Salazar-Alexander legislation accurately 
reflects the recommendations of their report.

I have learned that sometimes a Senator has to say something two or 
three or more times on the Senate floor before anybody pays much 
attention.

For example, on March 14, I said that it was time for the President 
to take the Iraq Study Group report down off the shelf and use it for 
something other than a bookend.

I ask unanimous consent to have my statement of that date printed in 
the Record at the end of my remarks.