---
---

# None
## `fb62ffc7de2f9487f694fc5eff88b15d`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. The issue here is that the earmarks are a very 
small percentage of the Federal budget. All of these bills have been 
bipartisan. If you look at all of the appropriations bills that have 
passed out of the House, there has been a significant number of 
Republicans who have joined with the Democrats to make these 
investments, especially Members of the Appropriations Committee that 
have looked at these issues very carefully to make these investments in 
a bipartisan way.

The energy bill, of which our friends on the other side, Mr. Speaker, 
have derided us and it's a Democratic this and a Democratic that, 314 
votes; 314 votes, which is 70 or 80 Republican Members of this body 
have joined with us to try to increase CAFE standards, make investments 
in alternative energy, make investments in the middle America and the 
Midwest. This is on a bipartisan basis.

So it seems like those folks who come to the floor seem to be on the 
fringe level of the party that they're talking about these things. But 
I think it's important for us to talk about some of the investments 
that we have made here.

There has been a significant shift in priorities. Now, we haven't 
come anywhere close to achieving what we have wanted to achieve since 
we have taken over. We don't have 60 votes in the Senate, and the 
Republicans have done a good job of blocking a lot of our legislation 
that we've tried to pass.

The President has vetoed SCHIP, which is the State Children's Health 
Insurance Program, that we wanted to provide 10 million middle-class 
kids with health care, and the President vetoed it twice. And the 
fringe Republicans, many have joined with us. Ray LaHood, Steve 
LaTourette, a lot of good Members of Congress have joined with us to 
try to override that veto, but the President was able to sustain it.

So we asked to cover health care for 10 million kids, $35 billion 
over 5 years. President said we're spending too much money. Turned 
around within days and asked for $200 billion more for Iraq that we're 
going to borrow from China. And so some of the investments that we're 
trying to make, I think it's important for the American people to know 
what we have done.