---
---

# IRAQ
## `fb68a2b837291a74266b354f387cb825`
`Mr. HATCH — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I appreciate the remarks of the 
distinguished Senator from Texas, who is indispensable to the Senate.

Today we are confronted with a struggle that could very well define 
the world in which our children and their children will live. Many will 
say this statement is hyperbole or politically


expedient and designed to disguise a troubled policy. I only wish that 
were so.

Today we are fighting to prevent Iraq and Afghanistan from 
disintegrating into failed states, where that chaos will be exploited 
by those who wish to undermine--and even destroy--mainstream Muslim and 
Western civilization.

In the past, these terrorists used Afghanistan and other developing 
nations as safe havens from which attacks against Americans were 
planned and executed throughout the world. One hardly needs to be 
reminded of the bombings of our Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania or the 
attack on the USS Cole to see this is true, not to mention the events 
of September 11, 2001.

What would happen if we were to permit these terrorists, and others 
who wish us ill, to have another such safe haven? Of what would they be 
capable? Just today we have read in the papers of Khalid Shaikh 
Mohammed's confession to many of the world's worst acts of terrorism. 
Remember that from Afghanistan, a country without significant 
infrastructure or resources, these terrorists were able to orchestrate 
the greatest attack on American soil since Pearl Harbor. Just imagine 
what their capabilities would be if they were able to control only a 
fraction of the oil wealth of Iraq. Is that the world in which we want 
our children and our grandchildren to live--a world in which 
uncertainty and fear become a part of everyday life?

As one prominent Democrat stated before he reversed his position and 
announced his intention to run for President:





. . . we cannot and will not retreat. We will defend 


 ourselves and defeat the enemies of freedom and progress.


Were mistakes made in the conflict in Iraq?

In a word, yes. I am sad to say important errors were made. Perhaps 
one of the greatest occurred over the past 30 years right here in our 
Nation's Capital. Past and present administrations, Congresses, and 
Department of Defense leaders primarily concentrated on training and 
equipping our forces to fight what is called in military circles ''The 
Big War.''

In such a conflict, large formations of mechanized divisions, corps, 
and armies seek to fight decisive battles on a conventional 
battlefield. This is not to say maintaining such a capability is no 
longer vital to our national security. It remains an absolute 
necessity.

However, in large part, due to the resolve of many of our military 
leaders not to fight ''another Vietnam,'' for the bulk of our Armed 
Forces, the skills necessary to fight a counterinsurgency had withered 
and atrophied. This is exemplified by the fact that the Army-Marine 
Corps Doctrine for Counterinsurgency had not been updated for 20 years, 
until December of 2006.

As General Petraeus, our new commander in Iraq, wrote 1 year ago:




 [T]he insurgencies in Iraq and Afghanistan were not in 


 truth the wars for which we were best prepared in 2001; 


 however, they are the wars we are fighting and they clearly 


 are the kind of wars we must master.


Other dire mistakes were made.

Many of those errors can be directly attributed to the decisions made 
by the Coalition Provisional Authority which originated from or were 
ratified by the senior civilian leadership at the Pentagon at the time. 
This includes the decision to disband the Iraqi Army without providing 
alternative means for the employing and sustaining of its former 
members. These former Iraqi soldiers went on to become the foundation 
of the initial insurgency. We might have been able to prevent that had 
we chosen another route.

Another mistake was the decision to eliminate the first three levels 
of leadership, not only in Government ministries but hospitals, 
universities, and Government-run corporations. Managers, no matter how 
junior, who were members of Saddam Hussein's Baathist Party were 
removed. The result was those who had the managerial experience best 
suited to rebuild Iraq's institutions were arbitrarily dismissed, even 
if they had not played any role in Saddam's atrocities.

In sum, many of the problems we confront today are as a result of our 
own shortsightedness and the administration's failure to fully and 
comprehensively develop and execute a plan for stabilization of Iraq 
after the fall of the Saddam regime.

So how do we go forward? We do have options.

Some, such as the authors and supporters of S.J. Res. 9, argue that 
we should unilaterally bring the bulk of our forces home from Iraq. Yet 
we all know what would happen if that were to occur. Iraq would be a 
failed state offering a safe haven for terrorists, not to mention the 
thousands and thousands of Iraqis who would be killed. Those who make 
this argument forget--or perhaps they do not know--that unlike our war 
in Vietnam, we face an enemy who is religiously committed to bringing 
the fight here to our shores. If the terrorists know we will withdraw 
the bulk of our forces in 120 days, as this legislation calls for, all 
the enemy has to do is husband its resources or ''lie low'' until that 
date. Perhaps the terrorists will launch fewer attacks to lull us into 
a false sense of security that this defeatist strategy is working. 
Then, with the cold calculation for which these terrorists have become 
notorious, they will spring on the Iraqi people before their 
Government's institutions--which were completely destroyed in 2003--can 
mature and fully take over the reins of fighting and defeating this 
insurgency.


These are not compelling options. At their core these ''solutions'' 
do not have the goal of victory but consist of resignation to an 
inevitable defeat.

So how do we win? How do we defeat the terrorists and give the Iraqi 
people a fighting chance to claim a destiny of their own, a destiny 
that is based upon peace and the rule of law? The answer is not simple, 
but what great endeavor ever was?

First, we must learn from our mistakes. Then we must implement a 
strategy that harnesses the tactics and strategies that have defeated 
other insurgents in the past and apply those lessons to the conflict in 
Iraq. That is what our new strategy, called Operation Fard al-Qanun--
which is Arabic for ''enforcing the law''--sets out to achieve.

So what is this operation's strategic objective? Once again, I 
believe General Petraeus said it best at his confirmation hearing. He 
said:




 [T]he mission . . . will be modified, making security of 


 the population, particularly in Baghdad and in partnership 


 with the Iraqi force, the focus of the military effort.


I could not agree more. Creating a secure environment is the 
essential task. This is accomplished not just by conducting operations 
to clear an area of insurgents but by maintaining an American/Iraqi 
security force in cleared areas which assists in providing essential 
services such as clean water and power to the local population and 
enforcing the rule of law. This, in turn, creates conditions where the 
Iraqi people can begin to develop a growing economy and where families 
feel safe to send their children to school. As these goals are 
achieved, more and more of the population will desire even greater 
stability and will support and work toward creating Iraqi Government 
institutions and security services that maintain and enhance this new 
security environment.

How is this strategy different from past endeavors? Unfortunately, in 
the past there were far too few American and capable Iraqi forces 
available to provide adequate security once an area had been cleared 
and, frankly, there are cases where political impediments prevented us 
from providing adequate security. That is why the additional forces we 
are sending to Iraq are so important. It is not more for more's sake 
but to maintain a secure environment for the Iraqi people.

This does not mean that our forces will be going it alone. Far from 
it. A key principle of the new strategy is to enhance and strengthen 
our efforts to advise and train the Iraqi military and police forces so 
they may eventually take over primary responsibility for the defense of 
their own nation. We must also remember that training was one of the 
major recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. Indeed, one of the 
members of my own party, who has authored legislation disagreeing with 
this new strategy--despite voting for the nomination of its 
implementer, General Petraeus--stated that Iraqi forces:




 . . . while they're not fully independently capable of 


 operating, they're excellent and trustworthy and fighting 


 hard with our troops today . . . I would be willing to serve 


 alongside those Iraqi forces.





I believe it is also important to add that, as of last week, three of 
the four Iraqi battalions that recently entered Baghdad were at above 
100 percent troop strength. Another vital element is our new commander 
in Iraq, General David Petraeus. I can think of no better choice for 
implementing our new strategy.

General Petraeus has long been a student of counterinsurgency 
warfare. In the 1980s, when he received his Ph.D. from Princeton, he 
closely studied counterinsurgency operations.

During the initial race to Baghdad, the General commanded the 101st 
Airborne Division, and he is largely credited with devising and 
implementing a strategy that secured the city of Mosul immediately 
after the initial combat phase.

Later, when he commanded our effort to train the Iraqi Army, General 
Petraeus implemented the Transition Team concept. A Transition Team is 
composed of a group of advisers, primarily officers and seasoned 
noncommissioned officers, who serve with Iraqi units from those units' 
inception, including basic and advanced training and eventually combat 
operations. This is an important strategy, since experienced U.S. 
soldiers learn firsthand the operational characteristics and 
requirements of Iraqi units and tailor a training program to fit the 
units' needs. It also provides a detailed analysis of the individual 
Iraqi units' combat capabilities. General Petraeus was also one of the 
authors of the updated Army/Marine Corps Field Manual on 
Counterinsurgency which was published in December of last year.

I do not know of any other officer with the intellect and experience 
necessary to carry out successfully this new strategy and win the war 
in Iraq. He has my confidence and apparently the confidence of most 
everyone in the Senate since 100 percent voted for him and he clearly 
articulated this new strategy. But what he needs is our support and 
time to carry out his new strategy.

One must also remember that all of the additional forces needed to 
fully implement this new strategy will not be in place until early 
June.

As the General stated in a recent news conference:




 We are, in any event, still in the early days of this 


 endeavor, an endeavor that will take months, not days or 


 weeks, to fully implement, and one that will have to be 


 sustained to achieve its desired effect. . . . I have been on 


 occasion bemused by people ''Hey, how's it going? Have you 


 won yet?'' And the answer is we've just started. Just the 


 second of five brigades [has arrived]. . . . Our soldiers are 


 resolute. They want to see this succeed, as do their Iraqi 


 counterparts, and that is exactly what we're endeavoring to 


 do.


So what do we offer him and the soldiers, sailors, airmen, and 
coastguardsmen under his command? We offer guaranteed defeat in the 
form of a joint resolution.

But with great respect for General Petraeus, I believe we have 
already seen some preliminary success. For example, Richard Engel, an 
NBC News reporter who has lived in Iraq for the past few years covering 
the war, responded just last month about our change in tactics. He 
said:




 Night and day. There's a radically new war plan under way 


 in Baghdad right now. For the past four years, U.S. troops 


 have been on main bases, most of them outside the city 


 center, some of them in Baghdad itself, and then have been 


 effectively commuting to work. Now they live at work, they're 


 living in small forward operating bases. . . . It is a very 


 different strategy. We're seeing foot patrols again that we 


 haven't seen in Baghdad for a long time, more hearts and 


 minds campaign. . . . It's very much a new war. A lot of 


 people say that this feels like '03, that the war is starting 


 again and that this is a new battle plan. The battle plan to 


 end the war in Iraq and finally establish some sort of 


 stability.


I would also like to address a matter that, more than any other, has 
weighed on my heart over the past few years. That question is, Do we, 
not just as a nation but as a people, have the will to see our 
obligations through? This has always been an important question. But 
now, during an insurgent war, where the side with the greatest will, 
not technological advantage, will generally emerge victorious, it has 
become the essential question.

So now we must ask ourselves: Do we have the will to see right 
triumph? Do we as Americans believe in making sacrifices for the 
greater good? History provides an answer.


Almost 230 years ago, the Continental Army began a retreat, or more 
accurately a route, from Brooklyn Heights over the island of Manhattan 
into New Jersey and then across the Delaware River. General Washington 
had fewer than 1,000 troops and was confronted by the greatest Army of 
the day. The Continental's enlistments were up and many soldiers, 
lacking basic supplies and even food, were making plans to go home. For 
all intensive purposes, the American experiment in democracy, where all 
men were to be treated equal, was about to end.

Then something miraculous happened. A writer named Thomas Paine wrote 
a pamphlet entitled ''Crisis.'' But panic was not his essay's subject. 
He wrote about commitment and faith that freedom would one day be 
victorious. His words still echo today:




 These are the times that try men's souls. The summer 


 soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink 


 from the service of his country; but he that stands it now 


 deserves the love and thanks of man and woman.


Shortly, after the Continental Army heard these words, the morale, 
which had been crushed by the cold winters of New Jersey, was restored 
enough for General Washington to launch the raids on Trenton and 
Princeton, thus saving the young Republic.

Commitment and faith had been restored--the faith that freedom is 
worth fighting for, that it is worth sacrificing for, and that is what 
we as a Nation must remember now more than ever.

I see the leaders are on the floor, and I will not take any more 
time, so I yield the floor.