---
---

# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `fb692c637d31c29cb8252429459558f1`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I rise to oppose the gentlelady's amendment. I respectfully disagree 
that the purpose of today's bill is to do anything other than to 
improve the quality of the diplomatic efforts that our men and women 
around the world are doing. I think that this is exactly what the 
direction of this bill does, and I think it does it in the right, 
efficient way.

This particular amendment would disallow an important film called 
Fateful Harvest, a documentary that exposes the poppy trade that the 
Taliban has used to imprison the Afghan people, from broad 
distribution. It is true


that current law forbids the Voice of America from releasing its 
products in the United States, and the original intention of that 
provision was that a U.S. Government agency should not be able to 
brainwash Americans or put things out there that would not be 
considered objective information. Further, domestic companies were 
concerned. They didn't want to have to compete with a not-for-profit 
government-funded entity. It does require an act of Congress to waive 
this law. But, let's be clear, Congress has waived this provision 100 
times in the past number of years for domestic releases, including the 
award-winning ''John F. Kennedy: Years of Lightning, Day of Drums'' in 
1965.

This particular movie, Fateful Harvest, is important for any American 
who's concerned about our national security. In a time when some 
Americans question the presence of American troops in Afghanistan, this 
film makes the case that American efforts help the Afghan people 
transition away from poppies to other agriculture helps in our fight 
against the Taliban. I personally saw the efforts that our men and 
women on the ground are doing in Afghanistan, when I was there a number 
of months ago, in trying to switch from poppies to pomegranates, to 
wheat and other products.

As we help Afghanistan transition their economy, we will undermine 
the Taliban. Most Americans cannot see this for themselves. That is why 
the release of this film is so important. I urge my colleagues to 
oppose this amendment.