# None
## `fb7d498192dc218db3a36f96c8f47435`
`Mr. LEAHY — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I oppose the DeMint amendment to impose a 
year-long moratorium on congressionally directed spending projects, 
popularly known as earmarks, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
Rather than finding real solutions to a weakening economy and American 
dollar, the growing debt and job losses, and the fact that millions of 
Americans are losing their homes, the Senate is being asked to bow to 
political posturing by turning to the already much debated issue of 
earmarks.

Discretionary spending in the Federal budget continues to be a 
decreasing share of the overall budget, and appropriations provisions 
initiated in the Congress amount to only a sliver of that. Meanwhile, 
the President, and many in Congress who talk so much about earmarks, 
seem to find no inconsistency as they push Congress every few months to 
approve tens of billions of additional dollars to be sent to Iraq. An 
analysis by two prominent economists, published last Sunday in The 
Washington Post, forecast that the overall, budget and off-budget cost 
of the Iraq war eventually will exceed an incredible one trillion 
dollars. And unlike the regular appropriations bills, the periodic Iraq 
spending bills are off the budget altogether--they go directly onto the 
national debt, waiting there to be paid by our children and 
grandchildren.

Funny thing, but the President never bothers to point out to his 
audiences that these Iraq spending bills dwarf congressionally led 
appropriations items. Nor does he point out that regular appropriations 
bills are paid for, whereas his budget proposals for Iraq are not. Nor 
does he point out that by far the majority of earmarks suggested for 
appropriations bills are requested by the President, not by Congress. 
In Vermont, and in many of our States, we would call that kind of 
illogic about earmarks ''the old bait and switch.''

As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I take seriously 
my responsibility to help craft a responsible budget for the Federal 
Government, and I know from long experience in working with my 
colleagues that this sense of responsibility is felt throughout the 
committee. Each of the annual appropriations bills forged by the 
Appropriations Committee and its 13 subcommittees comes in at or under 
the amount allocated under the budget process, and they often come in 
below the departmental amounts recommended by the President. For 
instance, the State and Foreign Operations appropriations bill that we 
brought to the Senate Floor last year for this fiscal year was $2 
billion below the President's request.

Long ago I became used to seeing sensational headlines about spending 
priorities that are authored by Congress instead of by the executive 
branch. Lists are drawn up that label every line item, every program 
and every project not explicitly proposed by the President as ''pork-
barrel spending''--regardless of their merit, need or importance to 
communities nationwide.

The Constitution confers the power of the purse to Congress, not to 
the President. As elected representatives from diverse districts, we 
each are closer to the needs of our states and communities than are the 
unelected staffers in White House's budget office. We also have an 
obligation to be responsive to our constituents' priorities.


As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, I often advocate 
for projects that benefit Vermont and feel strongly that the carefully 
drawn initiatives that I have worked to secure have improved my State's 
infrastructure, economy and quality of life. Over the years I have 
secured funds to improve community wastewater systems, roads and 
bridges, strengthen public safety, and build affordable housing. These 
address real needs that often are unknown or overlooked by the federal 
bureaucracy. Similarly, I work each year to shape and address other 
priorities that are ignored in presidential budget requests, on issues 
ranging from developing safer antipersonnel landmines, or helping to 
save the lives of the poorest of the poor from preventable death or 
disease. Attempts to ban earmarks would limit the ability to address 
these and other issues.

The alternative would be to leave all spending decisions up to the 
executive branch, which--when given no direction by Congress--can 
descend into political favoritism, feasibility and retribution when it 
comes to choosing whose states receive Federal funding. That would also 
lessen accountability.

In 2007 the Democratic-led Congress added unprecedented transparency 
and accountability to the earmark process. More than ever before, we 
are now committed to openness and accountability. Projects receiving 
funds in fiscal year 2008 are identified by member,


amount, purpose and location. Those who make funding requests must 
certify that they have no financial interest in their earmarks and 
those letters are posted online. Never before has it been as simple for 
the public, for outside groups, for journalists or for Members of 
Congress themselves to see the spending their elected officials are 
advocating.

Earmark opponents mislead when they say that congressional earmarks 
are given no scrutiny or oversight. Actually, the money is not just 
handed to an award recipient, but rather carefully vetted by the 
appropriate federal agency to make sure the intended award recipient 
and project qualify under that specific program's regulations. There is 
an assistance agreement between the federal agency administering the 
grant and the award recipient on the amount of funding and a plan for 
how exactly those funds will be spent.

DeMint amendment proponents will tell you that earmarks tripled in 
number over the last decade, but they neglect to say that President 
Bush signed those earmarks into law. They also do not mention that the 
tripling in earmarks occurred under prior Republican-led Congresses. In 
fact, fiscal year 2008 congressional earmarks dropped significantly, 
with overall earmark costs cut by $14.9 billion, or 51 percent, 
compared with the earmarks contained in the Republican appropriations 
bills of 2 years ago.

A 51-percent reduction in earmark costs, total transparency and total 
disclosure--I could have sworn that is what earmark opponents advocated 
when we considered and passed the ethics bill last year.

Another thing earmark opponents do not widely broadcast is that 
presidents, including the current one, are champions in the earmarking 
process. President Bush stuffs his budgets with billions and billions 
for his designated projects. In fact, the President directs 20 times as 
much spending to special projects than Congress does. Look through the 
fiscal year 2008 omnibus bill or the fiscal year 2009 budget proposal 
and you will see page after page of special projects amounting to 
billions of dollars, all requested by the President. With the reforms 
that the Democratic-led Congress put in place last year, congressional 
earmarks now receive far, far more public scrutiny than do the 
President's.


The amendment offered by the Senator from South Carolina fails to 
include a moratorium on Presidential earmarks. If we are bent on doing 
away with congressional earmarks, then we should apply the same rules 
to earmarks requested by the President.

Lastly, I am struck by the tunnel vision of several of this 
amendment's backers who have been stalwart supporters of the biggest 
earmark of all: The blank checks written for hundreds of billions, if 
not trillions, of dollars for the war in Iraq.

The proponents of this amendment claim that they want to get our 
Nation's checkbook in order, but what they do not say is that 
congressional earmarks are already paid for--the money is there to be 
spent, as prioritized by the appropriations bills. They are ready and 
willing to support the President's request to Congress for billions in 
emergency funding to continue the war in Iraq. Those dollars do not 
score against the budget, so the White House can advance the fiction 
that the President is being fiscally responsible at the same time that 
he piles on the debt for future generations.

Democracy depends on openness and accountability in government. Last 
year, the new Congress moved promptly to improve accountability by 
dramatically reducing earmark costs, and implementing a system of total 
transparency and total disclosure. We would be making a mistake to 
impose a rash and unnecessary moratorium on congressional earmarks. We 
will be shirking our constitutional responsibility by ceding the power 
of the purse to the executive branch. I will vote no on the DeMint 
amendment, and I strongly urge my colleagues to do the same.