---
---

# THE NEW DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS
## `fb90ab33425ad813c1c79815ff4e4e49`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, today marks the eighth month 
since my colleagues and I were given the privilege to enter this sacred 
institution to represent our respective districts across the country. 
The Democratic freshman class, one of the largest in recent history, 
also came at an historic time in changing control of both houses of 
Congress and leading America in a new direction.

Much has changed in eight months. Much has changed personally for 
each and every one of us. Eight months ago I stood in this very spot 
with my 2-month-old son, Gus, as we were sworn into this esteemed body. 
My 5-year-old was a kindergartner at the time.

Well, now, 8 months later, Gus is 10 months old, on the verge of 
walking; and that kindergartner is now an experienced first grader.

Much has changed for us professionally. I had the opportunity last 
week to go back and address the school where I taught. Many of us came 
to this institution from many different walks of life. We were 
teachers. We were newspapermen. We were law enforcement officers. We 
were physicians. We were farmers. We were many different things. But 
each and every one of us came to this institution with a very sacred 
duty: to change the direction that America was going; to listen to the 
American public; and to make sure that this institution was once again 
judged on effectiveness, not ideology. And this Congress has done just 
that.

This Congress has changed the priorities that have permeated 
Washington for the past 12 years. This new Congress has changed things 
from some of the most historic funding for veterans to the most 
sweeping ethics reform, described as some of the biggest changes since 
the Watergate era.

We have much to be proud of and much work yet to do. The Democratic 
freshman class was given an opportunity to change the course and to 
change the debate.

I had the opportunity to speak with some reporters asking what will 
the legacy be? What will this class have accomplished when all is said 
and done? And I think, in looking at this group of people and having 
the sense of pride that I have in serving with them, that the answer 
will not be known for many years. This class has thrown themselves into 
their work with such due diligence that I think the American people 
would be proud. We passed legislation not just on a Democratic agenda 
but on a bipartisan agenda.

We knew, each and every one of us that got here, that we did not come 
to this institution with an ideological mandate. We knew that the 
American people, when they were speaking last November, were not saying 
that they were enamored with just Democratic ideology. They were 
enamored with the speaking about changing the direction of the country, 
providing a new direction, providing ethics that actually work. 
Providing funding for our veterans, funding for our children, and 
taking this country in a new direction in the war on terror and what 
was happening in Iraq.

And I am proud to stand here today with my colleagues, and we are 
going to spend a little bit of time highlighting those achievements, 
and it is one that all American people should be proud of.

This Congress can do nothing with just one party. This Congress can 
do nothing with just ideology. When this Congress works together, 
things get done that would amaze the American people.

I, coming from Minnesota, have witnessed two of the biggest disasters 
that my State has ever witnessed. Back on August 1, the collapse of the 
I-35W bridge, to see a major interstate, eight-lane highway, crash into 
the Mississippi River. We lost seven people with a hundred injured. 
That tragedy and the response to it illustrates what can be the best in 
America.

Within 60 hours, the House of Representatives and the Senate had 
passed


legislation to rebuild that bridge. It went to the President's desk 
within 72 hours, was passed, and the money is already flowing to the 
State of Minnesota to correct that.

Last week on August 19, we saw some of the most massive flooding in 
my district that had ever been witnessed, 17-plus inches of rain in a 
24-hour period. We had seven deaths and thousands of homes washed out. 
The response was quick. It was bipartisan. It was professional. And it 
is one that the American people should expect, not hope for.

While the rains were still falling, I toured the area in the first 
few hours with the Republican Governor of Minnesota. The following day 
I toured with the Republican Senator and a Democratic Senator, and we 
held a news conference together with the Republican Governor. On 
Tuesday, President Bush was in Minnesota saying he would do everything 
he could to support us. On Wednesday, the Governor asked for a 
declaration, a disaster declaration, and on Thursday the President 
approved it. By the weekend FEMA was on the ground and people were 
rebuilding their lives.

That is what the American people should expect out of government: it 
is effectiveness; not its ideology; its bipartisanship, and it can be 
judged on what we do for the American public.

Those things have happened. They have happened across the board. They 
have happened in great numbers. And it is a message that I think the 
American people should be proud of.

As I said, much has changed. Much has changed for me personally. This 
is the first year I didn't start a school year teaching in a classroom. 
But I said many of those years, those 20 years in the classroom, taught 
me something about the next generation of Americans. They are 
optimistic. They believe that the best days are yet to come. They have 
a vision that can extend beyond the next election into the next 
generation. Our young people understand this. The American people 
understand this.

My colleagues are here not out of anything great that they personally 
did, but they are here and this change is happening because of the 
greatness of the American public. The American public and the system 
knew it needed to self-correct itself. It needed to bring change to 
this institution, and that change is happening.

So for the next few minutes, we are going to discuss some of those. I 
am privileged to be joined by my colleague from Kentucky, another one 
of the freshmen that came here that sprung up from this greatness of 
the American public and brought a message of change, of optimism, of 
prosperity that all of us can benefit from.

With that, I yield to my colleague from Kentucky (Mr. Yarmuth).