# SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS SERVING AS TRANSLATORS OR  INTERPRETERS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES
## `fb9e726d8715be5eef68971082acd984`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Florida for 
yielding to me in a gracious fashion, and I think there is another 
viewpoint that this Congress should be considering before we bring this 
to a vote on this suspension bill.

I start out with I believe there are two things wrong with this 
legislation that is before us here on the floor. The first one is 
current law limits the numbers to 50 interpreters who could be brought 
in legally, and we have a great big problem understanding the rule of 
law here in America.

Now, I haven't received satisfactory answers from the U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services or the State Department on how it 
is that, with a statutory limit of 50, and it says no more than 50, how 
was it that USCIS processed nearly 500 applications on an annual basis; 
and how was it that the State Department was poised to grant, but 
prohibited by law from granting, these visas for the interpreters from 
Iraq?

Now, I join my colleagues in praising and celebrating the brave 
service to our coalition personnel by the interpreters that have done 
such a good job in saving probably dozens or hundreds of American lives 
over there. In fact, I have a personal friend who served as an 
interpreter, and he carries a scar on his wrist from one of Saddam's 
henchmen who attacked him for being lined up with our side of this 
argument. I understand from a very personal basis what kind of risk is 
there and how their lives are at risk, but I would point out that we 
have such a thing as the rule of law.

Mr. Speaker, current law said 50. I offered an amendment, and that 
amendment would have limited the amount of applications that could be 
processed by USCIS to the statutory limit. It wasn't because I think 50 
is the right number, and I don't take a position on whether I think 500 
is the right number, but it was because I believe the rule of law is 
sacrosanct. And if we are going to allow USCIS process up to 500 
applications, and then come here to this Congress and say, well, gee, 
we must have been wrong because we have 500 applicants, not 50; or, we 
have no choice because it is implicit that we have promised these 
people that we are going to grant them the visas, how did we make a 
promise that exceeded Federal law? And what do we do if there are 2,500 
the next time the USCIS processes? How do we adhere to the rule of law 
if we react to people who stretch the limits? The people within USCIS, 
who I actually don't blame at this point, but we are here trying to 
keep our word. At the same time, we are ignoring the rule of law.

Those two things don't sit very well with me. That is the number one 
issue.

And the next issue is something I do think we need to think about, 
and that is the tactical side of this. This results in not 1,000 new 
interpreters, but 900, because 500 was the annual limit. So it is 900 
over a 2-year period of time. So that is 900 fewer interpreters to save 
more lives of American and coalition forces. Tactically we need to 
consider that. We need to understand that someone needs to be there to 
rebuild Iraq, someone needs to be there to defend Iraq. If 25,000 go to 
Sweden, that is another 25,000 of some of the finest citizens that will 
not be there to put Iraq back together.

Our job isn't to bring everybody here to save their livelihood here 
in the United States. We need to export our way of life; we need to 
encourage the Iraqis to rebuild their country. This depletes the 
resources.

But that is only, Mr. Speaker, my secondary argument. My primary 
argument is the rule of law. The rule of law should be sacrosanct and 
shouldn't be violated. And if we are going to pass this legislation, we 
should have adopted my amendment that limited the applications that 
USCIS can process to the statutory limit. If we did that, then I would 
have some confidence that we are going to adhere to the rule of law. As 
it is, I do not believe we will do that, and I think this turns out to 
be not probably the last, but the first amnesty bill that might pass 
off the floor of the 110th Congress. And if we don't have any more 
respect for the rule of law than we are showing here, then we are 
reacting to our own bureaucrats that, I will submit, that it is going 
to be difficult for us to adhere to the rule of law when it is 12 
million or 20 million as opposed to 400 or 500 or 900 people.

I think that makes my point, Mr. Speaker. I thank the gentleman from


Florida for his consideration and the time to make my case.