---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `fba422d2e5ea72e16f75954cbfedd0fe`
`Mr. REID â€” 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, if I exceed the 5 minutes, I will use my 
leader time.

The Congress and the President are on the eve of a very important 
negotiation about the administration's failed policy in Iraq. Does 
anyone dispute that it has been a failed policy? Does anyone dispute 
that it has been a failed policy? I don't think so.

But there is one simple question that negotiators will be wrestling 
with: After more than 4 years of a war in Iraq, costing Americans more 
than 3,400 lives, tens of thousands wounded, a third of them grievously 
wounded, we have more than 2,000 double amputees in this war, head 
injuries like we have never seen before, approaching a trillion dollars 
in taxpayers' expenditure for this war.

Sadly, there is no end in sight. Isn't it time for the administration 
to change course? Now, Nevada is struck and struck very hard with the 
fact that one of our brave soldiers from Nevada may be a hostage or 
some say a prisoner of war. This is new experience even in Iraq.

The votes we are about to cast this morning will give every Member 
the


opportunity to tell the American people, the White House, and the 
Congressional negotiators where they stand on critical issues.

House and Senate Democrats stand with General Petraeus. General 
Petraeus says the war cannot be won militarily. There can only be a 
political solution, which my friend from Michigan, the chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee has been saying for almost 2 years. The 
administration and the leaders in Iraq have not listened to Carl Levin.

We stand united, we Democrats and a couple of stalwart Republicans, 
in our belief that our troops are enmeshed in an intractable civil war, 
that we are pursuing a failed strategy that is making us less secure, 
not more secure, and that it is time to begin a responsible, phased 
redeployment.

We stand united in our efforts to get the administration to change 
course but do so now, immediately. The President's policy is not 
working, and it is not working for so many reasons.

The present path is not sustainable. The facts on the ground are 
certainly not encouraging. Everyone, today, look at USA Today. The 
attacks are up. The deaths are up, both of Iraqis and Americans; the 
injuries are up of both Iraqis and Americans.

Despite the fourth surge in U.S. forces since the start of the war, 
attacks on our troops have not decreased. The monthly casualty rate 
since the onset of the surge is close to the highest level we have seen 
since the start of this war. About three American soldiers are killed 
every day on average. Since the beginning of the surge, 300 Americans 
have been killed. I don't know how many have been injured but 
thousands. Meanwhile, the Iraqi Government remains in a dangerous 
stalemate--no oil law; no law on de-Baathification; no constitutional 
amendments. This paralysis has further fueled the sectarian violence, 
and our troops are caught in the middle. They protect the Sunnis. Our 
troops protect the Shia, protect the Kurds. In the process, they are 
all shooting at our troops.

The U.S. mission grows further and further disconnected from our 
strategic national interest. Instead of focusing on training, 
counterterrorism, and our regional interests, U.S. forces are 
patrolling Baghdad's streets, still kicking down doors, increasingly 
vulnerable to snipers, kidnappers, improvised explosive devices, and 
other acts of terror. American forces have done everything we have 
asked of them, and more. They toppled a dictator and helped pave the 
way for a new government. It is now up to the Iraqi political leaders, 
after 4 years, to step up to the plate and fight for their own nation. 
Again, as our leader on the Armed Services Committee, Senator Levin, 
has said on many occasions: Take off the training wheels. The Iraqi 
Government has to do that.

Our troops, their families, and the American people deserve an exit 
strategy, instead of extending tours from 12 to 15 months, putting 
further strain upon our men and women in uniform. It is long past time 
to transition the United States mission in Iraq and begin a 
responsible, phased redeployment.

The Feingold-Reid amendment does just that. It achieves that goal. 
The amendment calls for the phased redeployment of our troops to begin 
within 120 days. It doesn't call for withdrawal--phased redeployment. 
After April 1, 2008, the sixth year of the war in Iraq--think about 
that--it would still permit U.S. forces to remain in Iraq conducting 
force protection, training, and targeted counterterrorism missions. As 
Senator Biden said: Go after the real bad guys.

I appreciate the efforts of my friend, the senior Senator from 
Virginia, former chairman of the Armed Services Committee, but I say 
after more than 4 years of a failed policy he has watched, as I have, 
his amendment is very tepid, very weak, a cup of tea that has been 
sitting on the counter for a few weeks. You wouldn't want to drink that 
tea. You wouldn't want to vote for this amendment. If you look in the 
dictionary under ''weak,'' the Warner amendment would be listed right 
under it. I have the greatest respect for Senator Warner. I know he is 
trying to stick up for his President. Senator Warner has served this 
country honorably for more than 40 years. But the situation in Iraq is 
grave and deteriorating. It requires actions, certainly not more 
reports, especially those without consequences. I will vote against the 
Warner amendment and I hope everyone votes against it. It is nothing.

The Cochran amendment, offered by my friend with whom I have had the 
good pleasure of serving in Congress for 25 years--he is a fine man and 
a real patriot; he has served this country so well for so long--I don't 
necessarily agree with every word and assertion the Senator included in 
his amendment, but I do agree with its thrust; namely, the White House 
and the Congress have an obligation to our troops to move quickly and 
complete action on the supplemental spending bill. But I do say to my 
friend from Mississippi: The President has asked for money. But for the 
first time in more than 4 years of this war, he has to deal with this 
constitutional body that was provided to our country by our Founding 
Fathers, called the Congress. It is another branch of Government. He 
has to deal with us. That is why there are negotiations prior to 
getting the President a conference report.

Had I drafted this amendment, I would have asked more of the White 
House than simply the Congress write a blank check to this 
administration. Too many blank checks have been given to this 
President, and look what we have as a result. It is important we 
deliver our troops a strategy that is worthy of their sacrifice. I 
would also have made improving their readiness a priority. What do 
people who have the military experience in this body focus on? Senator 
Webb of Virginia, Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, they focus on 
readiness; that is, how are the troops being taken care of, how are 
they being rotated? Jim Webb, as we know, served gallantly in battle. 
He knows what it is to send troops into battle without proper 
readiness. He is concerned about that. We don't have enough about 
readiness, certainly, in the Cochran amendment.

We were going to have another vote on the Levin amendment. Basically, 
as I said to the Presiding Officer late last night, it was the 
amendment that went to the President and he vetoed it. The Levin 
amendment is the same thing except we gave the President waivers. You 
would think that would be a step in the right direction. But we have 
heard from all types of administration officials as late as last night: 
We will veto that. So we will make it easier for them. We are not going 
to go ahead and offer that. We will stand on the merits of what we sent 
to the President before.

Regardless of the outcome of today's votes, I want everyone listening 
to know that if my Republican friends choose to stick with a failed 
policy, congressional Democrats will take this fight up at the first 
available opportunity. We know we have to get a bill to the President, 
a conference report. We are going to do that. But there are other 
measures that are going to be moving through this body quite quickly--
defense authorization, for example. We are going to continue focusing, 
as Senator Biden said, on the President's failed strategy. Our troops 
and their families deserve no less.

Look what is going on now. Is the Commander in Chief fulfilling his 
obligations? We were told with this most recent surge that General 
Petraeus would be the guy who would take care of things over there. But 
he has told us we can't win militarily. Now today we read in the paper 
that General Lute is going to be the czar. The czar? What about that? 
Whose job is he taking? Is he taking General Petraeus's job? Is he 
taking President Bush's job? What is next in the continual march of the 
President's failed policy?

We must change course. That is why I am going to proudly vote for the 
Feingold-Reid amendment.