---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `fbaa43f65595c69a288991bbde34827a`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. I thank my colleague for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill, a bill that burdens 
our troops with conditions and dangerous timetables while 
simultaneously rewarding politicians with heaping helpings of pork.



Providing full funding to our troops standing in the breach in the 
war against militant radical Islamists should be easy, and it should 
come without strings attached.

The bill before us today sends a terrible message to our brave men 
and women in the Armed Forces, those who are serving our Nation in 
harm's way, and gives radical jihadists vital intelligence on potential 
future troop plans and intentions of the U.S. rather than offering a 
clean bill with emergency funding for our troops in combat, or allowing 
an up-or-down vote on the Sam Johnson bill that pledges Congress will 
not cut off funds for our troops on the front lines.

We are being forced to consider a muddled supplemental, replete with 
pork-barrel spending, risky timetables and other items that do nothing 
to ensure America's success in the long-term war against radical 
militant Islam.

Rather than the House debating how to win the war against radical 
militant Islam, with a focus on the current fronts in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, we are engaged in political theater and not debating 
national security.

The bill before us ties the hands of our military commanders with 
timetables and measurements that supposedly force troop withdrawal, yet 
the bill before us contains provisions for targeting al Qaeda and 
training Iraqi security forces that could leave thousands of troops 
behind without the authority or the funding to take the fight to enemy 
insurgents. This is not a good plan. It is not a good place to be. 
Let's be committed to defeating radical militant Islam, and let's do it 
today. Vote ''no'' on this bill.