---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `fbaf50fe1551905d874941e84db06c74`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 18 January 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I congratulate the Senator from 
Georgia. He has described something that for the last several months I 
have been calling the Isakson principle. I believe the Isakson 
principle is the basis for a comprehensive immigration bill that could 
attract 85 to 90 votes in the Senate and could, in a fairly short 
period of time, be reconciled with legislation passed by the House of 
Representatives.

It would be a single piece of legislation that would work in two 
stages. It would first secure our border; and then, as the Senator from 
Georgia says, the trigger would come in, and we would get the rest of 
the job done. And the rest of the job includes defining who can work 
and who can study in the United States if they come from overseas. The 
rest of the job also includes helping prospective citizens, of which 
there are about a million a year today--people who are here legally--to 
help them learn English, to learn our history, and to learn our 
democratic traditions so we can be one country.

There is a lot of talk this week about the borders of Iraq. I believe 
there are some more important borders in this world, at least to us 
Americans, and they are the borders around our own country. It is more 
important that we secure our borders at home than it is to secure the 
borders in Iraq.

Last year, both the Senate and the House of Representatives passed an 
immigration bill. I voted no on the Senate immigration bill. I opposed 
the bill because I did not believe it did enough to secure our borders. 
It had some good proposals for border security, and it had a number of 
other excellent proposals, but it did not guarantee they would be 
funded. We all know that border security on paper means nothing. It 
requires boots on the ground. It requires jeeps on the roads and 
unmanned aerial vehicles in the air. It requires an employer 
verification system. And it requires adequate funding.

So I voted no. But I said at the time I was ready to vote for, and 
wanted to vote for, a comprehensive bill, one that fixed the whole 
problem. And I suggested then, as did a number of others, that the 
basis for such a bill was the Isakson principle.

Well, instead of getting a bill passed into law, it was a political 
year, and some Members of the House of Representatives, including some 
members of my own party, thought the wiser course was basically to run 
against the Senate bill that I voted against. Well, we now know how 
successful that turned out to be. That was not successful because the 
American people expect us to act like grownups, deal with big issues, 
and come to a conclusion.

There is no issue upon which we in the Congress have more need to 
come to a conclusion on than the issue of immigration. It is our 
responsibility. We cannot kick it to the Governors. We cannot blame the 
mayor of Nashville. We cannot blame anybody in Iraq. It is our job in 
the Senate and the House of Representatives.

We should begin to do our job. We should take it up within the next 
few weeks. We should base our bill on the Isakson principle. And we 
should not stop our work on the immigration bill until we are finished.

The Isakson principle is the basis for success with immigration 
because of the so-called trigger. As the Senator from Georgia said, 
once we put into effect all of the things we need to do to secure the 
border, the trigger operates, and then we get to all the rest of the 
issues, some of which are hard to solve. But they are made much easier 
to solve once we and the American people are assured the border will be 
secured.

It is outrageous for us in the Senate to preach about the rule of law 
to the rest of the world and ignore it here at home. The rule of law is 
one of the most important principles of our country. We should make no 
apology, not be embarrassed 1 minute for insisting upon it. Every new 
citizen knows that. They do not come to this country to become an 
American based upon their color or their ethnic background. They come 
because to be an American, you believe in a few principles which you 
must learn if you are going to become a citizen. Foremost among those 
is the rule of law.

So we start with that. But that is not the only principle new 
citizens learn. There is the principle of laissez-faire--


in other words, a strong economy. And immigrants help a strong economy, 
whether they are going to be Nobel Prize winners or whether they are 
going to be picking fruit in California.

There is the principle of equal opportunity. There is the principle 
of e pluribus unum, engraved right up there above the Presiding 
Officer: How do we become one country? We learn our tradition. We learn 
a common language. We adhere to common principles, instead of color and 
background. And there is the tradition of the country that we are a 
nation of immigrants. By our failure to act, we are showing a lack of 
respect for the rule of law and a lack of respect for our tradition as 
a nation of immigrants.

It is especially outrageous for us not to act when there is no one to 
blame but us. We cannot blame Syria for this one. We cannot blame the 
Iraqi Government. We cannot blame Iran. We cannot blame al-Qaida. It is 
us. It is our job. So, Mr. President, I am here today to commend the 
Senator from Georgia. Since last fall, he has had before us the basis 
for sound, comprehensive immigration legislation--all in one bill; two 
parts: secure our borders; and once that is done, then all the rest of 
it. I believe that would attract 85 or 90 votes. And I would suggest, 
respectfully, to my friend, the Democratic leader, and my friend, the 
Republican leader, that if we are looking for things to do that are 
important, that the American people expect us to act on, that we have 
already demonstrated we can work on together, that within a few weeks 
we take up the matter of immigration, we base it on the Isakson 
principle, and we do not stop until we finish the job.