---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5893, INVESTING IN AMERICAN JOBS  AND CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES ACT OF 2010
## `fbb2892dc55bacea002e120932becc41`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 29 July 2010`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, you know, Paul Krugman wrote an article in The New York 
Times sometime back, and he is the Nobel Prize winning economist. On 
July 20 he talked about ''Tax Cut Truthiness.''

Without reading the entire article, he cites to Erick Erickson and 
says, ''But I think we have part of the key to how Republicans can 
believe that returning to the Bush agenda is exactly what we need: 
they've invented themselves an alternate history in which wonderful 
things happened under Bush, and earlier booms have been sent down the 
memory hole.''

Now, I have had the good fortune of being here in the minority and in 
the majority. I served 8 years under President Bush in the minority. I 
also served 8 years during the Clinton administration.

My late mom had a statement about all of us as politicians. She used 
to say, if you are going to say that George H.W. Bush did it, then you 
have to say that Jimmy Carter did it and then somebody else will say 
that Reagan did it. She said why don't you all just admit it that 
George Washington did it and get it over with so as how you don't have 
to keep pointing fingers at each other.

My distinguished colleague from North Carolina just certainly 
misspoke and didn't mean to when she said that this particular measure 
isn't scored.

Mr. Speaker, I submit for the Record the Preliminary CBO Estimate of 
Changes in Revenue and Direct Spending of the Investing in America Jobs 
and Closing Tax Loopholes Act of 2010. I might add that it points out 
that it is revenue neutral, as I said previously.


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH29JY10.001





I am so glad that my colleague and I come from virtually all the same 
kinds of backgrounds, if you read her biography and you read my own. We 
also have been advantaged in this society by taking advantage of the 
opportunities that were presented to us.

But where we parted company somewhere along the line, well she didn't 
want, evidently, to give opportunity to those who have no opportunity. 
I have been taught all of my life to do everything I can for the least 
of these in society. Now, I heard her, and I agree that the role of 
government identified in the United States Constitution clearly points 
out that national security is the role, and a primary role, of the 
Congress.

But promoting the general welfare is also a role of Congress. When I 
see, as I do, at the pantry in Fort Lauderdale, them not having the 
funds to carry forward, when I see the food bank on Oakland Park, 
that's less than nine blocks from the office where I am privileged to 
serve the people of the State of Florida, when I see it robbed by 
thieves so that they can't help the needy, I know that out there 
somewhere are people that are hurting, and they are hurting that people 
need our help.



And they need our help whether it's from the Federal Government or 
the State government or the local government, they need our help. And 
to suggest by any stretch of the imagination that it is wrong for us to 
help those who are in need is anathema to my background. And that isn't 
because I am a liberal Democrat; that is because I am an American 
citizen who believes in America and who believes in all of its people, 
whether they are rich or whether they are poor.

Now, I don't believe at all that this YouCut project that my friends 
have created allows that States do anything less than be incentivized 
by using the temporary assistance for needy families. No less an 
authority than the former chairman of the National Republican Party, 
Haley Barbour, who is now a member of the National Governors 
Association--and I might add, support for this temporary assistance 
program is expected to and sought to be brought onboard by the National 
Governors Association; they support it, the National Conference of 
State Legislatures, they support it, and the National Association of 
Counties have all urged Congress to continue the TANF as a way to 
create jobs and assist families. Listen to what Haley--who I happen to 
know and I happen to think is a distinguished American and an 
outstanding Governor of Mississippi--listen to what Haley said on 
February 17. He said, I hope the program will be extended so more jobs 
could be created. Now that's a conservative for you.

Now my colleague on the other side, I have been very anxious and very 
concerned that evidently people in this body do not understand how much 
Iraq cost this country. I did not vote for us to go to Iraq, and I am 
glad I didn't. I did not vote for the supplemental that we passed 2 
days ago, and I am glad I didn't because it didn't include things that 
should have been included. I might add that I can't make Afghanistan 
make sense when I see the number of young Americans that are being 
killed in that particular theater. But I do know this: Joseph Stiglitz, 
who is a economics Nobel Laureate, claimed the Iraq war will cost the 
United States more than $3 trillion, and he said the final tally is 
likely to climb much higher than that. There are others who believe 
that the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan have cost Americans a 
staggering $1 trillion to date, second only, in inflation-adjusted 
dollars, to the $4 trillion price tag for World War II. It cost us $1.1 
million per man and woman in uniform in Afghanistan. Now somebody make 
it make sense to me that it's all right for us to continue down that 
path while it's not all right for us to have temporary assistance for 
needy families.

Mr. Speaker, the legislation before us today is another tool that 
State and local governments can use to invest in infrastructure 
development and put much-needed cash and jobs into the economy. I am 
well aware that Republicans object to the expeditious nature of this 
legislation. However, the provisions in this legislation have already 
been debated and considered on numerous other occasions, and we do need 
to act quickly.

When we sent it, Mr. Speaker, to the United States Senate, these are 
the things that were included. My colleague began her remarks today by 
saying that it's outrageous. I find it interesting that she cited as 
one of the definitions of outrageous, ''exceeding the limits of what is 
normal or tolerable.'' It also describes outrageous as ''whatever is so 
flagrantly bad that one's sense of decency or one's power to suffer or 
tolerate is violated.''

Now, I fall into that second category and believe that small business 
lending is not outrageous. That was what was sent to the Senate that 
Republicans said no about. I believe that infrastructure investments 
are not outrageous. Much of that that was sent to the Senate was what 
Republicans said no about.

Business tax relief; I certainly don't believe that that is 
outrageous, and that's what was stripped out in the United States 
Senate by Republicans and was not voted on by Republicans in this 
particular body.

Individual tax cuts. TANF jobs and emergency funding that we now have 
some of. Veterans concurrent receipt, I don't think that's outrageous. 
The National Housing Trust Fund, I don't think in a time of downturn in 
this economy, with one out of every five Americans facing foreclosure 
or in foreclosure, I certainly don't think that that is outrageous. I 
don't think it's outrageous to hold harmless the provisions for low-
income families in this country. They stripped out, by saying no, oil 
disaster response.

National Flood Insurance, something that has been around that has 
helped a lot of us all over America, they stripped that out. I don't 
think that it's outrageous that it was in there.

Mine safety--and we've seen what happened in West Virginia--I don't 
think taking that out was the right thing to do; I certainly don't 
think it was outrageous to leave it in there.

Federally declared disaster areas, where floods and drought and other 
matters have gone on. Agriculture disaster relief was taken out of this 
measure, and I'm here to believe that it was outrageous? Other expiring 
disaster relief programs were as well.

Now some of the things that are in there, some of the things that are 
in it that I don't think are outrageous: It extends the Build America 
Bonds program that everybody in this institution knows has been 
successful for State and local government. It makes additional 
allocation of recovery zone bonds to ensure that each local 
municipality receives the minimum allocation or equal to at least its 
share of national employment in December of 2009. I certainly don't 
think that's outrageous.

And I might add my colleague Mr. Dreier also referred, as did Dr. 
Foxx, to the outrageousness. I don't think it is outrageous to exclude 
bonds financing facilities that furnish water and sewage from State 
volume caps estimated to cost $371 million over 10 years.

Is it outrageous to eliminate the cost imposed on State and local 
governments by the alternative minimum tax, estimated to cost $224 
million over 10 years? Is it outrageous to have new market tax credits? 
Is it outrageous to have emergency job fund creation and assistance, 
scheduled to expire on September 30, to extend that through 2011?

I don't think it's outrageous to suspend the recognition of foreign 
tax credits. And even though it is a legal entity in our law, as my 
colleague has said, I don't think it's outrageous that we close tax 
loopholes that allow American corporations to take American jobs abroad 
and cause this economy to continue to be exacerbated.

I don't think it's outrageous for us to offset the cost of this bill. 
However, the provisions in this legislation, as I indicated, have 
already been debated and considered on numerous other occasions. In 
fact, we have already pared down this legislation from the larger 
measure that I just talked about that the House already passed because 
the Senate could not get enough votes from the Republicans for passage 
in their body.

Now, America can continue to put up with these people that drove us 
in the ditch and give them the keys if they want to and expect that if 
we return to that era, that we are going to have prosperity. I don't 
think so. I saw what


happened. I believe Americans saw what happened.

The programs that we are considering are designed especially to 
assist the American people in times of economic hardship, just like the 
one our Nation is currently facing. We need to act to help Americans, 
not find evermore excuses not to help. Republicans have been 
consistently saying ''no'' on every jobs package and economic 
development legislation that we have put forward in this House of 
Representatives.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans in this Chamber are against everything 
coming their way from the Democratic side of the aisle. They want to 
block any job creation legislation in order to make Democrats look bad 
for the upcoming election, but they are doing so at the expense of the 
American people.



This legislation will help. This legislation does not add one nickel 
to the deficit and does not contain wasteful spending. Democrats are 
hard at work on an agenda to improve our economy, to create jobs, and 
to ensure that all Americans--all Americans--will be able to take 
advantage of opportunities and to have an opportunity to have 
opportunity as our economy recovers.

I hope that my colleagues on the Republican side of the aisle will 
unite with us to help Americans in these most difficult economic times.

Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to urge a ''yes'' vote on the previous 
question and on the rule.

I yield back the balance of my time, and I move the previous question 
on the resolution.

The previous question was ordered.