---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `fbd4059d961213b621805f0869d7d744`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I rise to discuss my vote against the 
previous amendment which both appropriated $165 billion to continue the 
tragic and misguided war in Iraq, and also included a number of 
provisions relating to our policies regarding Iraq. I favor many of the 
policy provisions contained in the amendment, such as requirements that 
the Iraqi government share in some of the costs of the war and a 
prohibition against the establishment of permanent military bases in 
Iraq. I commend my Democratic colleagues in the Appropriations 
Committee, including my good friend and distinguished colleague from 
Rhode Island, Jack Reed, for their work on these laudable provisions. I 
also strongly support the provision that requires our intelligence 
agencies to give access to detainees to the International Committee of 
the Red Cross. I have worked closely with my colleagues on the 
Intelligence Committee on this important provision, which is designed 
to end secret detentions.

While I fully supported some of the policy provisions in the 
amendment, I could not vote to fund this war in the absence of a firm 
and enforceable timeline for withdrawal. Unfortunately, it appears that 
the Republican minority remains intent on filibustering any attempts to 
mandate a rapid and responsible redeployment of our troops from Iraq. 
I, along with thousands of Rhode Islanders who have contacted me on 
this critical issue, oppose spending $4,000 per second on a war that 
has diminished our national security and damaged our standing in the 
world. I am hopeful that, under a new President, we can work together 
to bring an end to this war.















 Amendment No. 4818
