---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `fbfcc8bf1ae7a7b8853c91e6f4a16103`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation to 
provide emergency supplemental appropriations for Fiscal Years 2008. 
This legislation contains funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan 
through the summer of 2009, expands education benefits for veterans, 
and extends unemployment benefits for workers. While this final bill is 
not perfect, I will vote for it to provide necessary funds for our 
troops in the field as well as fund some of our most pressing domestic 
priorities.

As a veteran of the U.S. Army myself, I strongly support our troops, 
our veterans and their families. Our troops have done everything they 
have been asked to do and done it exceptionally well. I am tremendously 
proud of all the troops from North Carolina and across America who have 
done their duty so admirably. This legislation includes $162.5 billion 
for our troops to fight the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. It also 
includes provisions to make sure that our troops meet the Pentagon's 
definition of ''combat ready'' before they are deployed to Iraq and 
prevents them from being deployed longer than Pentagon guidelines 
recommend.

As the representative of Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base, I am a 
proud cosponsor of the Post-9/11 Veterans Education Assistance Act and 
am pleased that it is included in the Supplemental Appropriations bill. 
The original Montgomery G.I. Bill was a hugely successful initiative 
that provided hundreds of thousands of soldiers with new opportunities 
in education and business following World War II. We owe those same 
opportunities to the men and women fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
and currently serving around the globe. This initiative would give 
returning service members who have served on active duty in the Armed 
Forces or reserves after September 11, 2001, to receive educational 
assistance for up to 4 years, and can be used at any time within 15 
years of discharge or release from active duty. The new GI bill is also 
fiscally responsible as it is paid for with an income tax surcharge of 
one-half of one percent on individuals with incomes above $500,000 and 
couples with incomes above $1 million. Education is the key to the 
American dream, and our troops who have sacrificed for our country 
should be given every opportunity to access a higher education when 
they leave the service.

With our economy hurting, this bill extends unemployment benefits for 
workers who have exhausted their benefits by up to 13 weeks in every 
state and an additional 13 weeks in states with high unemployment. With 
the number of Americans looking for work growing, and the number of 
American jobs decreasing, this bill will help those Americans suffering 
in this economy.

I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress as well as the 
President and the Administration, to provide a new direction in Iraq 
and to meet the critical needs of the people of North Carolina's Second 
Congressional District.