---
---

# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `fc2149a83092e458f911bf11ad0ec6c4`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. Mr. Chairman, this amendment addresses the 
situation that we are facing on the ground overseas and at home. The 
United States Marine Corps is suffering a little over 30 percent of the 
combat casualties. My amendment makes sure that they and their program, 
in support of this very important bill, gets 20 percent of the money 
allocated in the fund established in this bill.

Mr. Chairman, on October 7, 2004, Marine Lieutenant Colonel Tim 
Maxwell's life changed forever. While on his third tour in Iraq, an 
enemy mortar attack left him with a battered body and severe brain 
trauma. But Colonel Maxwell is a marine, and despite the frustration of 
relearning how to walk and read, he has refused to give in to his 
wounds. In an open letter posted on his Web site, Colonel Maxwell talks 
about what it is like to be a wounded warrior:

''We tend not to complain about our injuries too much. Most of us 
know others who are worse off--a guy with a bad leg knows a guy who 
lost a leg, or both legs. I, with a brain that is 'cracked,' know 
youngsters with brain injuries who are unable to walk or talk. We all 
know some who died. So it is not a good thing to complain. We are tough 
guys. We are all going to whip it.''

Having experienced loneliness, frustration, and depression during his 
recovery, Tim Maxwell set out to ensure that fellow wounded marines 
would have a place to recover with others like them. He said: ''When 
you're in the hospital, your morale is okay. You are with other wounded 
warriors. You can chat about it. Sometimes we just look at each other 
in the hallway and nod. That's all. Acknowledgment. But once you are 
out of the hospital, it's tough. It sounds great on the day you leave. 
But there's irritation, frustration.''

In May, 2005, Colonel Maxwell came across a 20-year-old wounded 
marine sitting alone inside a Camp Lejeune barracks. The young man 
couldn't use his arm and was lonely and lost, having seen his buddy 
killed in combat and with his family living far away in Florida. 
Colonel Maxwell decided that ''no marine was going to be left alone 
like that.''

So along with Gunnery Sergeant Ken Barnes, he convinced the Marine 
Corps leadership that wounded marines needed their own barracks to help 
them heal among other wounded warriors. The Marine Corps leadership 
agreed, and in September 2005, Camp Lejeune opened the first barracks 
for wounded marines. The following month the barracks was dedicated to 
the man whose vision led to today's Wounded Warrior Battalion: 
Lieutenant Colonel Tim Maxwell.

Maxwell Hall at Camp Lejeune now houses 80 marines and provides them 
with the support structure necessary to heal. A similar barracks has 
also been established at Camp Pendleton, California, to care for west 
coast marines. The program has been so successful


that the concept was formalized by establishing the Wounded Warrior 
Battalions at Lejeune and Pendleton.

Simply put, Colonel Maxwell's vision of Wounded Warrior Battalions 
seeks to ensure that marines don't fall through the cracks that were so 
evident at Walter Reed. This amendment will help ensure this unique 
program succeeds and acts as a model for other services by assisting 
the Marine Corps transition this successful program from independent 
battalions on each coast into a single regiment with a headquarters 
located at Quantico.

The regiment's 54 staff members will help oversee the battalions at 
Pendleton and Lejeune, track active duty and discharged wounded marines 
through their recovery, and connect them with resources at the VA, 
other government agencies, and through private organizations. The 
battalions will continue to handle the day-to-day tasks of ensuring 
that marines are scheduled for medical appointments, that they are 
transported to those appointments, and that they receive counseling 
support to help heal their mental scars.

Earlier this week, I spoke with the newly appointed Wounded Warrior 
Regimental commander, Colonel Gregory Boyle. After the conversation I 
was even more convinced that the Wounded Warrior Regiment is the model 
for how to treat our wounded servicemembers. Colonel Boyle is motivated 
and ready to go forward. He came from infantry regimental command. 
Passage of this amendment will ensure he is able to do so.

I appreciate the opportunity to bring this amendment to the floor, 
and I very much appreciate the support of Chairman Skelton and Ranking 
Member Hunter.