---
---

# None
## `fc2af1ba6446eee3ce710f6c704f497f`
`Mr. BURGESS — 22 April 2009`

---


Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

You know, home on the 2-week recess that we just had, you are so 
busy--recess is a misnomer, you are so busy going from one place to 
another that oftentimes you don't even have an opportunity to keep up 
with the current events of the day. And I did what I was doing so often 
as I drive through my rather long and narrow district, I was listening 
to talk radio, a subversive station there in the Dallas/Fort Worth 
market, and they started talking about this report that had just come 
out from the Secretary. Well, I was so upset about what I was hearing 
on the radio that I got on my phone and I called the staff up here in 
the Washington office and I said, we need to get a letter to the 
Department of Homeland Security, to the Secretary right away. So I am 
going to read to you a few excerpts from the letter that I wrote last 
week to the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. And 
Judge, it actually goes back to something that you were saying.

Within the letter, the report states that ''the economic downturn and 
the election of the first African American President present unique 
drivers for right-wing radicalization and recruitment.'' The report 
goes on to connect associations with right-leaning ideology with the 
Oklahoma City bombing, the murder of law enforcement officials, bank 
robbery, attacks on infrastructure, racism, and bigotry in general. 
This report claims that, ''high unemployment leads to alienation, 
increasing an individual's susceptibility to extremist ideas.''

This report appears to claim that high unemployment amongst 
Caucasians, Christians, second amendment supporters and Armed Forces 
veterans has a causal relationship with radicalism and violence against 
the State. I call into question this underlying assumption and baseless 
claim. The implication that veterans returning home from serving our 
country are at risk of becoming domestic terrorists or assassins is 
sensational at best, but dishonorable and disrespectful of their 
service.

Profiling based on race, ethnicity, religious beliefs, or life 
experiences is always wrong. I believe the Department of Homeland 
Security owes an apology to the Americans that are offended by this 
report, especially to the men and women of our Armed Forces. 
Furthermore, the Department should rescind this report so that those 
local, State and Federal law enforcement officials who received it are 
not compelled to profile individuals as terrorists simply because they 
associate themselves with conservative organizations. I ask that you 
enact these recommendations on behalf of the constituents of the 26th 
District of Texas.

And just briefly, I want to read some lines from a stack of mail that 
I got from my constituents back home. Some of them are pretty 
outspoken. A resident from Flower Mound, Texas put it pretty simply; 
''Fire Napolitano immediately. The United States is not a police 
state.'' Another resident wrote, ''The only acceptable response is to 
fire Secretary Napolitano immediately. No apology should be accepted. 
Even her resignation should not be allowed. All Americans should demand 
that the Secretary be fired without delay.''

Another resident from Mound, ''Dear Congressman Burgess: Americans 
are repulsed by the leaked DHS Anti-Terrorism Security Assessment 
Summary that clearly targets mainstream Americans as dangerous 
extremists.''

A resident from Keller, Texas, ''The report issued yesterday by the 
Department of Homeland Security was reprehensible and insulting to tens 
and millions of Americans. The statement issued today by Secretary 
Napolitano standing behind the report is absolutely inexcusable. 
Secretary Napolitano should resign.''

A resident from Hurst, quoting from the body of the letter, ''I ask 
you to speak out against this kind of rhetoric, Congressman, and to 
call for the immediate resignation of the Secretary of the Department 
of Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano.''

Another resident writing from Hurst said, ''In fact, I am considering 
calling the Department of Homeland Security and giving them my name and 
address so they can keep an eye on me and my radical ideas, like a 
smaller Federal Government, more control back to the States. Maybe we 
should start a list for them.''

A resident from Corinth, Texas stated, quite simply, ''Fire Janet 
Napolitano immediately. I viewed her so-called apology on Fox and 
Friends in the morning on Thursday; that was no apology as she stands 
by the report.''

Another one writing in said, ''I have spent over 20 years of my life 
serving my country as an officer in the United States Navy fighting to 
protect the Constitution and America from the very likes of this. I 
joined during the Cold War, and I know firsthand how Communists act and 
what they do to political dissenters. Now to have this said of me and 
my family, my children, my friends, my neighbors, my church, and 
everyone else I know by my own government makes me''--I'll use a 
colloquial term here, I'll just say ''sick to my stomach.''



I demand Janet Napolitano's immediate firing. She has demonstrated 
she is unfit for service in any capacity in the U.S. governments. 
Another resident of Flower Mound. ''This is disgusting. Of all the 
departments and


agencies in our government which should be apolitical, Homeland 
Security is one of the most, if not the most critical, to remain 
apolitical. They are tasked with defending all Americans. I implore you 
to call for a congressional investigation immediately. I urge you to 
call immediately for the resignation of Secretary Napolitano. If she is 
so concerned with advancing a political agenda, let her go work for 
ACORN, whoever they are.''

A resident from Pilot Point, ''Warmest regards from Pilot Point. We 
are former U.S. Army officers. One of us is a West Point graduate. We 
are both veterans of Desert Storm. Both of our fathers and my 
grandfather are veterans. My father was a career Army officer and my 
uncle a Navy fighter pilot. My little brother, a U.S. Army officer, has 
served tours in Afghanistan and just returned from a tour in Iraq last 
month.

''Forgive my tedious intro, but in the spirit of full disclosure, I 
thought you should know that we are biased. We bleed red, white and 
blue. I cannot find the words to share with you, how repugnant we find 
the justification of discriminatory governmental directives and a 
complete lack of rational government demonstrated by the DHS Secretary.

''Someone can be given knowledge, but unless they truly accept and 
internalize the error of their actions they cannot be taught good 
judgment. She must be held accountable with a full investigation. Short 
of that, please demand her resignation.

''There is no apology that will change the discriminatory character 
that she demonstrates and apparently supports. Please make an outspoken 
stand on principle. I feel we cannot change her character.''

Well, to the two Army officers from Pilot Point, consider it done.

Resident from Lantana, ''Why have Republicans not been screaming for 
Janet Napolitano's firing? My employees would be fired in this 
situation.''

It goes on to say ''I love you, and I went to the Denton TEA party.''

A resident from North Richland Hills, ''Returning veterans are being 
subjected to unjust scrutiny by the DHS Secretary.''

A resident from Denton, ''Her pronouncements are an insult to every 
American and probably 95 percent of hardworking citizens. To hear such 
word from a high-ranking Federal employee, language that denigrates 
those who defend our country and every patriotic American makes me one 
that Napolitano, I suppose, would consider a threat even though I have 
always thought that nothing in my personal life and belief system would 
so delegate me.''

Well, I have a few more, but in the interest of time, I am going to 
stop there. Those are some of the most poignant that were submitted to 
the office.

Certainly this is something that has gotten people's attention and 
appropriately so. I think, Judge, you are doing the correct thing by 
having this special hour tonight, giving many of us a chance to come 
down to the floor and talk about this.

I can't say it any better than my constituents have said it, an 
investigation, to be sure, a replacement of the Secretary, I think, is 
certainly in order, and I do have to question the sincerity of an 
administration that would not undertake these measures after the types 
of very, very painful words that have been included in that report, and 
how it has affected those that we have depended upon to fight for us 
and maintain our freedom.


























 April 16, 2009.


 Hon. Janet Napolitano,


 Secretary, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Federal 




 Office Building, Washington, DC.



 Dear Secretary Napolitano: I am writing to express my 


 concerns regarding a recent Department of Homeland Security 


 (DHS) report entitled, ''Rightwing Extremism: Current 


 Economic and Political Climate Fueling Resurgence in 


 Radicalization and Recruitment.'' This report claims to 


 provide law enforcement officials with the tools to help them 


 deter, prevent, preempt, correspond to terrorist attacks 


 against the United States. I understand the purpose of shared 


 intelligence, however, I am concerned that by broadly 


 characterizing those who support a conservative ideology with 


 terrorism the DHS may have mischaracterized and offended 


 several million Americans and placed them at risk of 


 profiling bylaw enforcement officials.



 This report states, ''The Economic downturn and the 


 election of the first African American president present 


 unique drivers for rightwing radicalization and 


 recruitment.'' The report goes on to connect associations 


 with right-leaning ideology with the Oklahoma City bombing, 


 the murder of law enforcement officials, bank robbery, 


 attacks on infrastructure, and racism and bigotry in general.



 This report claims that ''high unemployment leads to 


 alienation, increasing an individual's susceptibility to 


 extremist ideas.'' This report appears to claim that high 


 unemployment among Caucasians, Christians, Second Amendment 


 supporters, and Armed Forces Veterans has a causal 


 relationship with radicalism and violence against the state. 


 I call into question this underlying assumption and baseless 


 claim. The implication that veterans returning home from 


 serving our country are at risk of becoming domestic 


 terrorists or assassins is sensational at best and is 


 dishonorable and disrespectful to their service.



 Profiling based on race, ethnicity, religious beliefs, or 


 life experiences is always wrong. I believe the Department of 


 Homeland Security owes an apology to the Americans that are 


 offended by this report, especially the men and women of our 


 Armed Forces. Furthermore, the Department should rescind this 


 report so those local, state, and federal law enforcement 


 officials who received it are not compelled to profile 


 individuals as terrorists simply because they associate 


 themselves with conservative organizations.



 I urge you to enact these recommendations on behalf of the 


 constituents of the 26th District of Texas.





 Sincerely,





















Michael C. Burgess, M.D.
