---
---

# None
## `fc4c96771255aae487745128b1d21c3a`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to be before the House 
of Representatives once again with the gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. 
Murphy) to share with the American people and our colleagues some of 
the issues that are facing the United States of America today, and that 
I think will have ramifications for the future of this country.

The past few weeks here have been very exciting as we continue to try 
to press the President of the United States to find his way in Iraq and 
begin the withdrawal of our troops.

I think it is important for the American people to recognize the 
position of the majority party in the House of Representatives and the 
position of the majority in the United States Senate represented by 
Speaker Pelosi and Senate majority leader Harry Reid in which we are 
trying to begin the process of winding down the war in Iraq and 
expanding the global war on terrorism.

The war in Iraq does not have anything to do with the war on 
terrorism, and we hear from the President consistently that if we don't 
fight them over there, we are going to have to fight them over here. I 
think it is important for us to recognize that only 2 to 3 percent of 
the people fighting in Iraq are al Qaeda. We are in the middle of a 
civil war in a country that 70 percent of the citizens of that country 
in


Iraq believe it is okay to shoot American soldiers. That is where we 
are in the middle of this civil war, a religious civil war between 
religious groups and ethnic factions in which Americans in many 
instances are the targets of this civil war now.

We have seen in the last 4 months, Mr. Speaker, the deaths of more 
Americans in that 4-month period than any other 4-month period during 
the war. It is getting worse by the day. Many of us continue to talk to 
soldiers who come back and go back and forth, and they are very 
discrete with us and they share with us information that they are maybe 
not willing to say publicly. But if I have heard it from one soldier, I 
have heard it from 15 or 20 from my district and around the country who 
I have talked with. And they inevitably say: What is winning? What is 
winning this war?

We ask the President time and time again: What does winning mean? We 
are beginning to try the process that the President keeps vetoing of 
winding this war down.

When you have a scenario where you have a couple thousand or 3,000 or 
4,000 U.S. and Iraqi soldiers in cities of over 100,000 trying to 
secure and trying to find out who these insurgents are when they all 
dress in civilian clothes, they all drive civilian cars. No one has a 
uniform on. No one is driving a tank. This is a guerrilla war that we 
are in the middle of. It is becoming very, very difficult for us to 
secure it. I believe we have missed the opportunity to secure that 
country because we lack troops.

I don't want to take all of the time up tonight. I know Mr. Murphy is 
such a courteous New Englander that he would probably let me, but I 
think it is important that the citizens of this country know that the 
Democratic Party is trying to end this war. We want timetables. We want 
accountability, and the one thing that we are saying to the President 
of the United States, two things, this is not going to be an open-ended 
war and you are not getting a blank check.

I yield to my friend.