# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `fc4fc8942bd5bc37b884ce8b558f53f1`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill, which seeks to impose 
a strategy of defeat on our Armed Forces and our country. By binding 
our military and our foreign policy in a straitjacket, this legislation 
would accomplish what thousands of our enemies have sought: to force 
the United States to retreat from Iraq without a plan for victory.

Proponents of rapid withdrawal would like us to ignore the reality 
that Iraq is but one of the critical battlefields in an ongoing war 
against Islamic jihadists, against global terrorism, a war declared by 
the jihadists and which saw its beginnings in November 1979, when 
Iranian radicals stormed our embassy, took Americans hostages, and held 
them captive for 444 days.

From there Americans, Westerners, innocent human beings were 
targeted. Where and when were they targeted? In the bombings of the 
Marine barracks in the U.S. embassy in Beirut in 1983, in the bombings 
of the World Trade Center in 1993, in the bombings of the Khobar Towers 
in 1996, in the attacks of our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, 
and in the attacks on the USS Cole in the year 2000.

Proponents of rapid withdrawal want us to look at the bombings in 
Iraq in a vacuum, disregarding the similarities to the suicide bombers 
that have killed scores of innocent Israelis, those who planned and 
carried out the bombings in London, in Madrid, in Bali that claimed so 
many innocent lives.



These may not be the exact individuals, nor the same groups, but they 
are part of a global terrorist network working toward the same end, to 
destroy and to attack us and our allies.

The Islamic jihadists will not stop their agenda of destruction 
simply because we quickly withdraw from Iraq. They will, perhaps, stop 
when they see our nations, our cities, our communities burning, just as 
the World Trade Center towers and the Pentagon burned on that terrible 
day of September 11, 2001.

They have clearly articulated their goals, listen to their words; al 
Qaeda's second in command, Al Zawahiri, made it clear in May of this 
year, and I quote him: ''The empire of evil, the United States, is 
about to end and a new dawn is about to break over mankind, which will 
be liberated from the caesars of the White House and Europe and from 
the Zionists.''

Those seeking to impose an immediate withdrawal deadline are so 
intent on rushing through this legislation that they appear to have 
failed to consider the consequences of a U.S. national security 
interest of what euphemistically is being called a ''phased 
redeployment.''

How is the strategy of quick withdrawal different from the strategy 
outlined by Al Zawahiri in a letter that he sent to al Qaeda operatives 
about driving the U.S. out of Iraq? How would we prevent the 
development of Iraq into a full base of operations for al Qaeda and 
other terrorist networks? We pretend to be armchair generals, seeking 
to undermine the strategies called for by our commanders on the field. 
But we should not.

Some label the current strategy of failure long before this full 
complement of units had been, in fact, deployed. But those doing the 
fighting in Iraq know that we have not failed, patriots such as the 
Parsons brothers from my congressional district.

Huber Parsons was serving his third deployment in Iraq, this time 
with the Army Stryker Brigade, when his vehicle was struck by a deep 
buried IED just a few months ago. His driver was killed, and Huber had 
to undergo a number of surgeries. I had the honor of visiting him often 
at Walter Reed. He is pictured here saluting his fallen brothers-in-
arms at a memorial service in Fort Lewis, Washington. His twin, Bill, 
and his younger brother, Charlie, are both currently serving in Iraq, 
also with the Army Stryker Brigade. They, like my stepson, Doug, and my 
daughter-in-law, Lindsay, and so many others who are currently deployed 
in Iraq, are disheartened when they hear the references to failure and 
consider that the talks of this rapid withdrawal shows a lack of 
confidence in their ability to defeat the enemy.

Many patriots ask me why the Congress would endanger them and their 
fellow service men and women by having them engage the enemy with an 
immediately reduced force. Where, in a region of jihadists, are troops 
to be deployed to? What Middle Eastern government would want to host a 
retreating and defeated American Army? How does withdrawal to Kuwait or 
Qatar, as some have proposed, help us fight al Qaeda in Iraq? If al 
Qaeda strategies worked in Iraq and forced an American retreat, how can 
we not conclude that they will also pursue them in Kuwait and Qatar and 
beyond?

Mr. Speaker, George Orwell said that the quickest way of ending a war 
is to lose it. We should be discussing strategies for victory, not how 
to ensure our own defeat.

And let me close, Mr. Speaker, by reading the words of General 
Petraeus in an interview just a few days ago word for word. He said, 
''I can think of few commanders in history who wouldn't have wanted 
more troops, more time or more unity among their partners. However, if 
I could only have one at this point in Iraq, it would be more time. 
This is an exceedingly tough endeavor that faces countless 
challenges.'' General Petraeus continues, None of us, Iraqi or 
American, are anything but impatient and frustrated at where we are. 
But there are no shortcuts. Success in an endeavor like this is the 
result of steady, unremittent pressure over the long haul. It is a test 
of wills, demanding patience, determination and stamina from all 
involved.



General Petraeus, as we know, was unanimously confirmed by the United 
States Senate to be our commander in Iraq, yet somehow we have become 
better war commanders than General Petraeus.

I urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.