---
---

# IRANIAN CONFERENCE IN PARIS: 2ND ANNUAL WORLD DEMOCRACY CONGRESS
## `fc5de7f18afba262030ecc19032417ba`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 26 June 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my 
support for those who promote democracy in Iran and stability in Iraq. 
In Paris, thousands of Iranians have gathered to celebrate a big 
victory today. It is a great day for the Iranian people and their 
resistance.

On Monday, the government of the United Kingdom formally removed the 
Iranian opposition from the U.K.'s Terror list. This happened after 
many years of campaign by the organization. Legislators approved the 
decision of the Proscribed Organization Court of Appeal, which ruled in 
May that the People's Mujahedeen of Iran (MEK) should no longer be 
listed as a proscribed group.

It is a great day for the Iranian people, for all freedom loving 
people of Iran who have been forced to leave Iran, and for their just 
resistance. It was great to hear that the British government formally 
removed an Iranian opposition group from the U.K.'s Black list on 
Monday, after many years of campaign by the organization.

As a Representative of the 18th Congressional District of Texas, I 
have had the pleasure, of working with a strong and vibrant Iranian 
population in Houston. They have contributed immensely to the cultural 
diversity, economic and political dynamic of Houston. As a Member of 
Congress, I find Iran's support of terrorist organizations, pursuit of 
nuclear weapons, and dismal human rights record to be extremely 
worrisome. However, I am also concerned by what appears to be 
precipitous movement by this Administration toward yet another war in 
the Gulf region, without having first exhausted diplomatic means of 
addressing any conflicts.

I have long been an advocate of a free, independent, and democratic 
Iran. I believe in an Iran that holds free elections, follows the rule 
of law, and is home to a vibrant civil society; an Iran that is a 
responsible member of the region and the international community, 
particularly with respect to the proliferation of nuclear weapons. An 
Iran that, unfortunately, we do not see today.

Today, the Bush Administration announced a set of new sanctions 
against Iran. The Administration labeled the elite Quds division of the 
Revolutionary Guard Corps as supporters of terrorism, and stated that 
the entire Revolutionary Guard Corps was engaged in proliferating 
weapons of mass destruction. These designations trigger unilateral 
sanctions designed to impede the Revolutionary Guard, and any who might 
do business with it. These new sanctions mark the first time that the 
United States has taken such a step against the armed forces of any 
sovereign government.

The only effective way to achieve lasting peace and prosperity in the 
region, along with bringing about reforms in Iran's policy, is to 
assist the Iranian people in their quest to achieve political, social, 
and religious liberty. Every government can be judged by the way in 
which it treats its ethnic and religious minorities, and the current 
Iranian government gets a failing grade for its treatment of its many 
and diverse minorities.

Given the government's poor record for transparency and 
accountability, the International Atomic Energy Agency's (IAEA) 
inability, despite intensified inspections since 2002, to verify that 
Iran's nuclear program is not designed to develop a nuclear weapon is 
cause for great concern. While Iran states that the intention of its 
nuclear program is for electricity generation which it feels is vital 
to its energy security, U.S. officials challenge this justification by 
stating that ''Iran's vast gas resources make nuclear energy programs 
unnecessary.''

The controversy surrounding Iran's procurement of nuclear energy is 
cause for great concern, however, the Administration's avoidance of any 
and all diplomatic relations with Iran are cause for greater alarm. 
Moreover, the current rhetoric from the Bush Administration regarding 
war with Iran is both counter productive and highly inflammatory. While 
full diplomatic, political, and economic relations between the U.S. and 
Iran cannot be normalized unless and until enforceable safeguards are 
put in place to prevent the weaponization of Iran's


nuclear program, these policy objectives should not constitute pre-
conditions for any diplomatic dialogue.

Establishing a diplomatic dialogue with the Government of Iran and 
deepening relationships with the Iranian people would help foster 
greater understanding between the people of Iran and the people of the 
United States and would enhance the stability the security of the 
Persian Gulf region. Doing so would reduce the threat of the 
proliferation or use of nuclear weapons in the region while advancing 
other U.S. foreign policy objectives in the region. The significance of 
establishing and sustaining diplomatic relations with Iran cannot be 
over-emphasized. Avoidance and military intervention cannot be the 
means through which we resolve this looming crisis.


I am planning to introduce important legislation that will call for 
human rights and religious freedom in Iran. The Iranian people have 
continued to ask for democracy to reign free in their country and I 
intend to support the Iranian people in that endeavor. As you know, 
over the past few months, the people of Iran have been standing up to 
Iranian government. I am aware that at least 5000 acts of protest took 
place last year. I applaud your efforts to encourage those who have 
raised their voices against the extremists in Iran.

The United Nations has condemned Iran 54 times for its atrocious 
human rights record. Inhumane treatment of youths, women and workers by 
the government of Iran is further evidence of the regime's intolerance. 
Iranian women have shown they play a pivotal role in establishing 
democracy and ensuring human rights in Iran.

We all must work together for a stable and democratic Iraq. Today, 
there is undisputable evidence that Iran is the main contributor to the 
violence in Iraq which causes American casualties. The extremist 
government in Iran has acted to ensure the failure of Iraqi 
reconciliation. Iran is part of the problem in Iraq and does not wish 
to be part of the solution. But Iraq's tribal leaders are standing up 
to the Islamic extremism coming from Iran. I know that over 3 million 
Iraqi Shiites have signed a declaration this month rejecting Iran's 
meddling. They have also shown support for the Iranian opposition MEK 
living in Ashraf. I support their invaluable efforts for peace and 
stability in Iraq.

Although many disagree with the current status of this war in Iraq, 
all agree that we must collectively work to stop Iranian-style 
fundamentalism from taking root in Iraq. Let me here recognize your 
actions in support of democracy in Iraq as well as in Iran. With many 
continuing to suggest that military action in Iran is the best way to 
deal with our political discrepancies, it is now time to renew our 
efforts in strengthening our diplomatic policies in the Middle East. 
The same people who called for attacking Iraq now are raising the 
drumbeat for military action against Iran.

Despite the November 2007 U.S. National Intelligence Estimate 
concluding that Iran had halted its nuclear weapons program, the Bush 
administration is bolstering its case for war by labeling Iran one of 
the greatest threats to American security. Bombing Iran would bring 
disastrous consequences. The entire Middle East likely would descend 
into further violence putting the well-being of innumerable civilians 
at risk. U.S. standing in the world would plummet and oil prices would 
soar. A U.S. attack would only strengthen hardliners in Iran.

Supporting the efforts of the Iranian people who want democracy is 
especially important now that the UK government confirmed on June 24, 
that the MEK was no longer ''Concerned in terrorism'', and officially 
took the name of the organization off their black list. This is a great 
victory for the cause of democracy in Iran. In light of the recent 
developments, the United States must seriously consider the court's 
findings and also remove the limitations it has placed on the MEK.

The world community must strengthen the sanctions on the clerical 
regime. It must also immediately recognize and support the Iranian 
resistance as the democratic alternative to the regime in Iran.

Today, the mullahs are increasingly using oppression inside and 
terrorism outside of Iran as a foreign policy tool. The solution to the 
current crisis is often perceived to only have two solutions--war or 
appeasement. I disagree. There is a third option. The Third Option 
introduced by Mrs. Maryam Rajavi relies on the strength of the Iranian 
people and their organized resistance. This is the best and least 
costly alternative. Let us not continue to make the mistake of 
appeasing Iran. As a viable alternative, we must move to support the 
Iranian people and their resistance. Only you can bring about 
democratic change in Iran.

I have come to know the people of Iran and appreciate their thirst 
for freedom. My message to them is this: rest assured that it is 
attainable. I wish you the best in your struggle for peace, freedom and 
democracy.
