---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `fc6dd70e28481661e4920c4511fa74bf`
`Mr. MICHAUD — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. MICHAUD. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight in support of this 
resolution that expresses our unwavering support of our troops and our 
opposition to the escalation in Iraq. This is an extremely important 
debate and it is one that is long overdue.

We have lost over 3,100 brave Americans. Many more will return home 
with mental health and physical wounds that will stay with them for the 
rest of their lives.

We have spent hundreds of billions of dollars. Hundreds of thousands 
of Iraqis have lost their lives or fled their homes as their country 
has fallen into deeper civil war.



Regardless of one's opinion on how we got into Iraq, we are there, 
and the situation is deteriorating. So the simple question before us 
is, What is the best plan for the future?

The President has called for an escalation of troops; in other words, 
more of the same approach.

I oppose an escalation of U.S. troops in Iraq. I will not support 
funding for the President's plan or blank checks for an open-ended 
commitment.



We need a new plan, and escalation is not what the Iraq Study Group 
called for. It is not what our top generals have advised, and it is not 
what the American or Iraqi people want. When General John Abizaid, 
former top commander in Iraq, asked his commanders in the field if more 
U.S. troops would help, the unanimous answer was no. As he said: ''And 
the reason is because we want the Iraqis to do more. It's easy for the 
Iraqis to rely upon us to do this work. I believe that more American 
forces prevent the Iraqis from doing more, from taking more 
responsibility for their own future.''

U.S. forces cannot clear and hold neighborhoods in Baghdad 
indefinitely. We have tried so-called ''surges'' before, and they have 
not stopped the violence. And as with these previous surges, when we 
leave, the same problems will return, and perhaps even worse.

The reality is that United States military strength cannot solve the 
problems in Iraq nor should it. The future rests on the capability and 
the will of the Iraqi people. Our continued dominance only prevents 
Iraqis from taking control of their country and their destiny. The 
military mission of toppling Saddam Hussein is over. The political 
mission, the reconstruction mission, the nation-building that this 
administration said it would never do has all but failed.

But that is what we must now address, not our strength of arms but 
our strength of diplomacy and our power to rebuild.

Our new strategy should be to withdraw and redeploy our soldiers 
quickly while empowering the Iraqi security forces. We can help to 
rebuild and create economic opportunity, to train Iraqis and perform 
other assistance as asked, but we cannot remain the dominant force in 
Iraq.

It is time for Iraqis to take control of their own country. A 
stabilized, secure and free Iraq can only be achieved when Iraqis take 
full control. Until that time our forces will be stuck in the middle of 
an increasingly violent civil war and all the while Afghanistan sliding 
back into danger and violence and al Qaeda continues to plot while our 
attention is being diverted.

I have spoken with many people in Maine about this war. I have spoken 
with current military personnel, many who have served in Iraq, their 
families, veterans, and concerned citizens of all political stripes. 
Everyone agrees there is no simple solution to the challenges we face 
in Iraq and how to solve it.

There is one opinion that is unanimous. We all support our men and 
women in uniform. They, like the generations before them, are heroes. 
They heard their country's call and they did not hesitate to answer. I 
am glad this resolution makes that support clear. We owe it to our 
military personnel to provide them with the very best when they are in 
harm's way and when they come home.

I have heard from many Vietnam-era veterans who fear that our new 
veterans may face many of the hardships that they faced. This cannot 
happen. As a member of the Veterans Affairs' Committee, I am committed 
to addressing the mental health and physical needs of our returning 
heroes, and I know the American people are willing to do that as well. 
And as we discuss alternative strategies, it must be clear that we must 
do something that fully supports our military personnel.

This resolution is not about politics. This issue should unite all of 
us. This is about the future of Iraq, our strategy abroad, and our 
welfare for our troops.