---
---

# THIRTY-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `fc70ee881e28076092f78126470acd19`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the 
House. As you know, the working group, we come to the floor to share 
good information with the Members and make sure that we are all 
informed on what is happening in this new-direction Congress. Also, for 
us to understand our future, we have to go into our past. We try not to 
dwell on that too much, but when there are examples of leadership and 
courage, we want to identify and illuminate the leadership that many, 
that the majority of the Members of the House have already taken.

Today's vote with passing this budget resolution by the House is a 
perfect example of our priorities as we move through the process. As 
you know, there will come a time when the Senate and the House will get 
together in conference and we will send our budget to the President, 
and hopefully we can all come to common ground on behalf of not only 
domestic priorities, but also international priorities and how we are 
seen in the world.

This is a Friday for us here in Congress because this is now the 
close of legislative business, and we are going to be off for the next 
2 weeks from Washington, DC. But we will be back in our districts 
working very hard, talking with our constituents.

Many Members will take this opportunity to share with the members of 
their community and their district the accomplishments that they have 
been able to make in the last 2 weeks, and they have been quite 
historical. I think with the emergency supplemental, even going back to 
that, since that is a week old and something we have already voted in 
the affirmative in a bipartisan way, I think that is a testimonial to 
what this 110th Congress is going to be about and what we continue to 
work very hard in making sure that the American people have a chance to 
see exactly how hard we have been working.

I think I am going to have to get my chart that talks about the days 
we have worked, the resolutions we have passed, the suspension bills we 
passed compared to previous Congresses. I think it is important when 
people look at their Members of Congress and they say, well, are you 
actually working on my behalf. I am hearing from the 109th Congress 
that there were times that you spent more time out of Washington than 
you spent in Washington. And many of our Members are hungry to see 
their constituents because we have been here the majority of the weeks 
working on a 5-day workweek.



Out of that 5-day work week, there has been a lot that has been 
accomplished.

So I am going to talk about not only the resolution, but I am going 
to also talk about the effort of bipartisan votes that have taken place 
here on the floor and on the accomplishments of being here in 
Washington, DC, and having hearings. I think that is important, and I 
think that the American people need to be fully aware.

We talk about Iraq in the same light that we talk about the work. On 
the 29th, which is today, the total deaths in Iraq, 3,243. That's as of 
10 a.m. That's 10 a.m. numbers. Wounded, returned back to duty, 13,473. 
That number continues to change, Mr. Speaker. And wounded not returning 
back to duty is 10,841.

Why do I give those numbers out? I give those numbers out to make 
sure that all of the Members understand that this work is very, very 
serious.

This number is changing because just today in the Armed Services 
Committee we had a hearing on Guantanamo that has a connection to the 
efforts against terrorism throughout the world. But oversight 
accountability hearings on Iraq are at 104. That is the last documented 
number I know. When we get back from the break, this calendar will be 
updated.

Also, we had issues of cleaning up Washington, DC, and making sure 
that


America is safer; hearings that we've had making sure the American 
dream is possible for everyone. We have had a number, Mr. Speaker, of 
bipartisan votes here on this floor that really meant a lot to 
Americans.

When we started looking at the issue of minimum wage, when you have 
82 Republicans voting under the ''New Direction Congress'', under a 
Democratic-controlled Congress voting for an increase in minimum wage, 
that means that there has been a will and a desire to do so over the 
years, but they haven't had the opportunity to do it, and it took 
leadership to move in that direction. Also, making college more 
affordable. When you look at votes that have taken place, 124 
Republicans have joined Democrats in voting in the affirmative as a 
unit, and I think that is very, very important.

When we start looking at the Iraq resolution, we have to look at the 
courage and the insight and the vision of this ''New Direction 
Congress'' in allowing Members of this Congress to vote on something 
that will be beneficial to their constituents but also meets emergency 
needs of the country and Iraq and Afghanistan.

I think it is very, very important that we understand that when we go 
on break there is going to be a lot said because we won't be here in 
Washington, we won't have the opportunity to come to the floor. Of 
course, the administration will have 2 weeks of an opportunity to speak 
from a podium without a response, an official response, outside of 
Members sending press releases out. But when you look at this 
resolution, it makes sure that, in dealing with the veterans issues, we 
have in place making our commitment as it relates to defending the 
homeland.

I used to be on the Homeland Security Committee, and we started 
talking about making sure that the levees are in place and that we 
never see another Katrina in our lifetime, not under our watch; and 
holding our commitment to the men and women in the gulf coast. I think 
that is very, very important, and something that we have to continue to 
work on.

Another piece of legislation we passed within the last 2 weeks is the 
Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, a response not only to the scandal at 
Walter Reed but also to make sure we can ensure the troops and veterans 
that they will receive quality care. This is a bipartisan piece of 
legislation, something that we should be very proud of and the American 
people should be proud of. We will continue to move in that direction 
of being aggressive on these issues.

When you deal with the issue of U.S. troop readiness, I met with the 
command sergeant major of the Army Reserves just today, Mr. Speaker, in 
my office. He talked about the number of issues that are still not 
being addressed on behalf of reservists. But I can tell you that the 
refreshing part of that conversation was that I could go to the Wounded 
Warriors Assistance Act of 2007 to say that help is on the way. I was 
able to point to the concurrent resolution that we passed, our first 
action in January, that we put $3.6 billion into veterans health care 
so that when he goes out in the field to speak to the soldiers, he can 
say a new day is coming.

I talked about the budget resolution prior to this budget resolution 
passing here on the floor, the largest increase and investment in 
veterans assistance, health care assistance in the history of the VA. I 
was able to talk to him under those terms and under that flag of 
accountability, oversight and making sure that we are accountable to 
the men and women that serve our country. I can tell you that it was 
received with great appreciation from him.

I think it is important that as we start looking at the action of 
growing the economy that is in this budget that it is going to be very, 
very helpful to us all, making sure that our economy is moving in the 
right direction and will be here for all levels of economic classes.

We start looking at children that are being assisted through this 
budget. As we continue to march through this process, as you know, 
there will be a House and Senate conference, there will be Members 
pulling in different directions to make sure that the priorities are 
met, but when it is all said and done, children are being protected. I 
know the Speaker will be having a summit on children that is coming up 
pretty soon that will allow us to even further look into the needs of 
children in the United States of America.

What does this mean to the economy, Mr. Speaker? It means an awful 
lot. It means if you have healthy children you have fewer days of 
parents having to take off work and take them to the doctor, or to stay 
home to try to, what I call, drugstore medication, going to see what 
they can buy over the counter to help their children rebound from 
whatever health ailment that they may have.

With this budget that we passed, we are making sure that every child 
in the United States of America has an opportunity at universal health 
care, something that is very, very important. I come from a State where 
over 12 percent of the kids are without health care. I think it is 
very, very important that we focus and stand behind our commitment to 
America's children in making sure that we provide the funding to make 
sure they all have universal health care. It is going to be good for 
our economy, it is going to be more days that children will be in 
school. We will have healthier children, we will have healthier 
families, and we will have a healthier economy in our society. I think 
it is important that we move in that direction.

When we look at the State Child Health Insurance Plan that we have 
here, we call SCHIP, you look at the investment of what we have just 
made on this vote here on the floor. In 2008 to 2012, you will see in 
the billions of dollars that the President's budget is a $2 billion 
increase up until 2012. But then, if you look over a little further, 
you look at the budget resolution we just passed, and that is with a 
$50 billion increase as we move into 2012.

So we have already laid out that we have the will and the desire to 
do so and that we are ready to do it; and we will be finding the 
necessary resources to do it without going into deficit spending. That 
is something that we have passed in the pay-as-you-go. If you are going 
to propose it and you are going to pass it, you are going to definitely 
have to show how we are going to pay for it.

I think it is also important, as we look at the agenda, and we have a 
number of third-party validators that have endorsed this budget. We 
even have committees outside of the budget. But we have a Select 
Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, a panel created to 
inform Congress and the public on energy independence, climate change 
as well as developing policies and initiatives to assure progress made 
to reduce dependency on foreign oil. This is so very, very important, 
Mr. Speaker. Not only do we have this select committee out there, in 
this budget it reflects our values in investing in the Midwest versus 
the Middle East. It is a lot cheaper, believe me.

And those numbers that I read out at the beginning of how many men 
and women will never come home to their loved ones, how many of our men 
and women that won't be able to return back to battle, I think it's 
important for us to understand that we not only have to conserve but at 
the same time make sure that we put our money where our mouths are when 
it comes down to protecting our Earth, because we only have one.

I think it is also important, Mr. Speaker, just for us to step back 
for a moment and just reflect on what not only happened just a few 
minutes ago but what happened last Friday. I continue to come back to 
that since the President is saying that he wants to veto the emergency 
supplemental. I think it's important that we just look at that just a 
moment.

I was on the floor last night, and Mr. Ryan was here. We had an 
opportunity to talk about what the President really meant when he said 
that he wanted to veto the emergency supplemental for our men and women 
in uniform. I couldn't help but reflect on the President's history on 
vetoes, and I started looking. I would ask my staff, and then I started 
just kind of doing a personal evaluation. Have I ever heard the 
President say he is going to veto something?

In 6 years of him being President, since I have been in Congress, now 
going on 5 years, I have never heard the President say I am going to 
veto something. I wonder why.

Well, we just left the 109th and the 108th Congress, which was better


known as the ''rubber stamp Congress.'' The President sends it to the 
Hill, it will be followed to the T, and that it will be ''so shall it 
be written, so shall it be done.'' Members will make other Members vote 
for the President's priorities. The majority was on the Republican 
side. And in November, the American people said, I no longer want that 
kind of democracy. I no longer want the President's original thoughts 
to be carried out by the Congress without review.

We have another chart, and I want to make sure that we get that 
chart, the one that talks about how many bills we've passed. I had it 
here last night. It may be in the back or something, if staff can grab 
it for me. It was from the Clerk's office. It talked about the days 
that we've worked to this point and the bills that we've passed until 
this point, because I think it will be very, very revealing.

The Congress last session did very little. And when I say very 
little, they had very few hearings on many of the issues that are 
before the Congress. We are taking a lot of time, not only Members of 
Congress but also the staff here in the House of Representatives on 
both sides of the aisle, because the days have been accelerated and the 
fact that we are actually having two or three committee meetings in a 
given day, leave alone subcommittees. And I think it is important, if 
we are going to have an active and functional and informed government, 
that we have to go through the steps and making sure that we are making 
sound decisions. That's okay when you are looking for others to tell 
you what you should be doing.

This is my new favorite chart, Mr. Speaker, because, as you know, in 
the Working Group, we love third-party validators; and we love to give 
accurate information out. I personally love to give accurate 
information out. I don't ever come to the floor and share with staff or 
a friend, ''How can I go to the floor and give inaccurate information? 
Please help me do that.''

Some of the debate that took place here on the budget, I was really 
shocked by the fact that some Members would come to the floor and say 
something that we all know is not true. But this is true. This comes 
from the Clerk of the House. This is the Record. Bipartisan office, 
it's the Record. I love everyone in the office, and I appreciate the 
work that they do.

But this is the 107th Congress, the 108th Congress, the 109th 
Congress, and this is the 110th Congress. This was known as the ''do-
nothing Congress.'' That was what the media called it. And the ''New 
Direction Democratic Congress'', that's what we call it. It has nothing 
to do with the third-party validator.

When you look at roll call votes to this date, March, 2005, during 
this month, as we close out this month, there were only 90 roll call 
votes that were taken. As we close out this month, there will be 189 
roll call votes that were taken under this Congress, under this 
working, very functional, very informed Congress. Because the fact is, 
Mr. Speaker, that we have taken the time to go to a committee, to have 
staff research and to have witnesses come to us and share with us where 
we're going wrong and what we're doing right, and that is important.



We look at suspension bills, another form of bills that we vote on, 
26 in the 109th Republican-controlled Congress, 72 that we voted on 
Democratic-controlled Congress. And then it goes on and on and on. And 
I think it is important even days in session, 26 compared to last year 
under the Republican-controlled Congress, 48 under the Democratic-
controlled Congress.

Why is this important? We have two wars going on. We have children 
without health care. We have veterans that are waiting 6, 7 months to 
be able to see a specialist at a VA. We have VA clinics that are open 
only once or twice a month.

Why is this important? This is important because we have small 
businessmen and women in America trying to find a Congress that is 
going to stand on their behalf as it relates to free trade. And I 
believe that trade is good, but not when it is at the cost of U.S. jobs 
and the outcome measures of building our economy are based on 
hypotheticals.

It is important for us to be here, Members, to understand these 
issues. So as I speak on the importance of what we have done and what 
the President is talking about in vetoing the emergency supplemental 
bill and saying that, oh, well, it is those folks in Congress that are 
holding it up, no, we have done our work. You will have the bill on 
your desk, and I urge you not to veto it on behalf of the people that 
are counting on us to stand for them.

It is not us and them; it is all of us. We are all Americans. And if 
there are some things in the emergency supplemental that the President 
disagrees with, then that is fine. State those disagreements, but don't 
hold up the necessary resources from the men and women that are in the 
forward area, especially in Afghanistan.

If this was a political conversation, I would say, Mr. President, 
veto it. You have to lie in that bed; and those that voted against the 
emergency supplemental would have to lie in that bed, too. But I would 
be speaking as some sort of hard-core partisan, which I am not. I am a 
Member of the U.S. Congress, and I think it is important that we look 
at it, Americans look at it the same way. It is not an issue of if you 
are a Republican or an Independent saying, well, the Democrats. No, no. 
The people that will suffer the most by the President saying that he is 
going to veto are going to be the men and women in uniform, the 
veterans that have been waiting on accountability out of this Congress 
and it is at an emergency level.

Those Americans that have been waiting because of natural disaster, 
they are an emergency state. They are ready for their economy to kick 
in so that they can start providing for their families. It is going to 
be those individuals that are going to suffer. So let's take the 
personalities out of it. You have to be for the emergencies that are 
facing this country.

Emergency supplemental is very, very important to this country and 
should not be allowed to be used as a political football. So I would 
ask for the President to reconsider his original thoughts vetoing the 
emergency supplemental.

I think soon that there is going to be a discussion, Mr. Speaker, as 
it relates to the budget resolution we just passed. There will be 
threats and rumors of threats about what the President won't stand for. 
But there has to be a paradigm shift, because the American people have 
made a paradigm shift in November. You had Republicans and Independents 
voting for Democrats because they wanted accountability, they wanted 
oversight, they wanted to move in a new direction, and they wanted to 
make sure that they had a government that was going to balance with the 
present administration. But apparently that message has not gotten to 
the White House yet.

And I am so glad that the leader of the Senate and also the Speaker 
of the House sent the President a letter saying, you know, it is not 
personal, let's just calm down and let's work together in making sure 
that the men and women of our Armed Forces and the veterans, I have the 
letter right here. This letter is from Senator Reid and also Speaker 
Pelosi. And it talks about both House and Senate bills contain 
important provisions rejecting the present policy that has been pursued 
for more than 4 years.

Now, let's just say this very quick. And this is the closing of this 
letter because we can go on from the beginning. But we entered this 
into the Record last night and there is no need to do it today, but I 
think it is important that everyone understand where we are headed and 
where we have been.

We know the past 4 years that there has been, not one, two escalation 
levels of U.S. troops in Iraq, and we know a third one just took place 
recently, an escalation in troops. And every last escalation has shown 
the same, very little as it relates to making sure that Iraq is a safer 
place to be. And it is still a very dangerous place. The President is 
asking for more time. But usually when you have three strikes, you are 
usually out.

But as we start looking at this, it is important that the Members pay 
very close attention to this and the American people. And it goes 
furthermore to say that the provisions are based on statements by 
General Petraeus and


other senior military leaders that there is no military solution in 
Iraq. No military solution in Iraq. So to say that 140-plus thousand 
troops, 200,000 troops, we are going to get to the bottom of this; the 
more, the more the better, that is not necessarily what the military 
commanders have said.

What did the Iraq Study Group say? They said that we have to find a 
diplomatic solution and that we have to find some sort of redeployment 
plan of U.S. troops. Great Britain has already said that they are 
pulling out. Others of the coalition of the willing, that I must add 
you would assume that Great Britain would be the second largest 
coalition in Iraq right now.

No, it is actually U.S. contractors that is almost being led by 
Halliburton who said that they are going to move their headquarters 
overseas to Dubai. The U.S. taxpayer dollars are all intertwined in the 
Halliburton Corporation, and there are several investigations on 
Halliburton as it relates to their accountability of making sure that 
they billed the American taxpayers appropriately.

This goes on to say that their collective judgment leads to the 
conclusion that U.S. forces should not try to contain a civil war, but 
rather a bipartisan majority in the House and Senate believe strongly 
that the U.S. mission should be transitioned to a counterterrorism 
force protection, and training and equipping the Iraqi security forces 
and phased redeployment of U.S. troops should commence.

That is what this letter is saying, and that is what we must do.

And I think it is very, very important that this message is loud and 
clear. And I don't think that the will or the desire of the majority of 
the Members of the House and the will and the desire of the majority in 
the Senate will change on this issue, because polls have indicated, not 
only the poll that was taken in January because that was all about Iraq 
and some other issues and accountability and ethics, but the poll that 
was just taken over the weekend of how the American people felt about 
the action of this Congress, they are with us. They are saying, what 
took you so long? Well, the thing that took us so long was not 
necessarily this Congress. It was the rubber-stamp Congress.


So someone, please, I implore you and beg you, call the White House 
and tell the President, just because you say it, doesn't necessarily 
mean the American people are going to follow you.

I was watching the President on the television just the other day, 
the press conference after the Senate took its action, and you would 
have assumed that something really bad happened. The President was 
saying, You know, I am going to veto it. He kept saying this, And they 
are holding money. Do you think the American people are going to 
believe for one minute when you have an emergency supplemental with 
accountability measures in it, of following what? The Department of 
Defense deployment rules and regs of men and women when they circulate 
out of theater. You have bureaucrats right now in the Pentagon that as 
soon as enlisted Reservists and in some instances National Guard return 
back home, they are returned back home within 150 days and going back 
into theater for another 12 or 15 months if they are a soldier, 7 to 10 
months if they are a marine. If they are in the Air Force, it may go 
from 3 to 4 to 5, or maybe up to a year, not because someone believes 
that that is the case. And here is the President on the front page 
trying to play the blame game and point fingers. That is not what this 
is about.

And the reason why I am speaking in a very firm voice on this issue 
is that this is not politics. This is saying, let's work together, 
let's make sure that this is not about a stare-down, who is going to 
flinch first. It is not about flinching, it is not about who tucked 
their tail under their legs and who won. Because we all win when we 
give the men and women what they have to do.

So this has accountability measures in it saying that troops will not 
be deployed outside of the Department of Defense's own rules and 
regulations. Obviously they have been bending those rules. How do you 
say to a soldier or a marine, an airman or a sailor that we are going 
to bend the rules when it works to the benefit of the Pentagon or the 
administration, but when it comes down to what you are supposed to do 
we are not bending anything? We are going to hold you to the nine of 
what you are supposed to do. That is not American. That is not fair.

So this Congress has stood up on behalf of those individuals and said 
that we are going to hold not only the Department of Defense's feet to 
the fire, but also the administration's feet to the fire on this issue 
in law in this emergency supplemental. If you are going to spend the 
money, these are the rules you are going to live by.

It also goes on and talks about the whole issue of readiness, making 
sure that our men and women have what they need when they go into 
theater. Well, some may say, well, Congressman, why are you talking 
about readiness? We are not sending anyone over there unprepared. The 
real issue is there is training that is involved that needs to happen.

Again, I told you that I met with the sergeant major, the highest 
enlisted man or woman in the Army Reserve just this morning, and he was 
sharing with me the level of training that his men and women in the 
Reserve units have not received because of the fast rotation and the 
lack of emphasis on training and readiness. This is fresh information. 
This is not fresh. We already knew this, but he just validated it even 
more by just coming and saying this is an issue.

We just passed this budget. So if the President doesn't want to move 
in a new direction in making sure that our men and women have what they 
need and they are trained, that is something that we need to talk to 
him about. We need to talk to him about it. We don't need to say you 
are wrong or do it, we want to watch, we want to see you do it; because 
if you do it, it is going to cost you politically. We are far beyond 
politics right now.

It goes further into increasing the VA and assisting those men and 
women that are coming back. And it also looks at, states, that kids, 
the children, we reflect in our budget what we want to do. But with 
children, the money will run out for children's health care in certain 
States here in this country if this emergency supplemental doesn't go 
through. And I think it will happen prior to the next budget act when 
the bill is up.

I know Mr. Ryan came down and he was getting ready to join me, and I 
don't want to move into the segment that he shared with me that he 
wanted to share with you. But as we start continuing to look at the 
present and hopefully moving into the future, I want to make sure that 
the Members know exactly why this budget was very, very important. The 
budget that we passed doesn't raise any taxes whatsoever, and I know 
Mr. Ryan is going to talk about that and I am not going to take his 
thunder.

But as we start to look at the interest payments on the debt, of what 
has happened in the past and where we have to have the paradigm shift 
and where this budget resolution starts to move the numbers and the 
reality of what has happened in the past, what was the reality in the 
109th and 108th Congress.

Here is the interest that is paid on the debt right here, in the 
billions. And this is what Congress invested in education. Interest, 
education.



Next to that investment in veterans in the billions, the very low 
billion, under a hundred billion versus the debt.

Homeland security. You have a lot of chest beating going on down here 
on the floor about homeland security, protecting the homeland. That is 
one of those things that comes in behind ''I love the troops.'' Protect 
the homeland. Previous Congresses and previous budget chairmen and 
committees did not set their priorities there, but they made good 
speeches.

Look down here, homeland security, that is the investment that is 
made in homeland security versus paying down the debt. Why is this 
chart important? It is important because our priorities are now 
changing to no deficit spending, pay as we go. That is going to be 
painful.

Mr. Speaker, I already feel the pain. It is going to be painful. But 
if we are going to make sure that we do what we are supposed to do as 
Members of Congress and we hold to our word as Members of Congress, I 
am talking about all


Members of Congress, we will pay. Because the foreign debt that this 
administration and the Republican rubber-stamp Congress previous to 
this Congress put on the backs of this country will have other 
countries looking at us in a different light.

Mr. Ryan, I probably borrowed $20 from you every now and then.