---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `fc7b6da253fb26147abade4062110329`
`Mr. LEVIN — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I have discussed with the Senator from 
Delaware modifying his amendment expressing the sense of Congress on 
Federalism in Iraq.

My concern with the wording of the amendment stems from the fact that 
the Iraqi Sunnis did not participate fully in the drafting of the 
constitution of Iraq and the Sunni community voted overwhelmingly 
against it but were unable to prevent its adoption in a referendum. As 
a result of their dissatisfaction with the constitution, an agreement 
was made to convene a Constitutional Review Commission to review the 
constitution and to make recommendations for changes to the Iraqi 
Council of Representatives for submission to the Iraqi people. One of 
the benchmarks that the Iraqi political leaders agreed among themselves 
called for the Constitutional Review Commission to be formed by 
September 2006; for the Commission to complete its work by January 
2007; and for a constitutional amendments referendum to be held, if 
required, in March 2007.

The Constitutional Review Commission has not completed its work 
despite several extensions of time; the most recent extension being 
until the end of this year. In recognition of the agreement to have a 
Constitutional Review Committee, the legislation establishing 
procedures for the creation of new federal regions in Iraq will not go 
into effect until 18 months after enactment of the legislation, which 
is April 2008.

Accordingly, I appreciate the modifications that Senator Biden is 
making to his amendment to reflect that the political settlement 
regarding federalism referred to in his amendment should be based upon 
the ''final'' provisions of the Iraq constitution. This will allow for 
the possibility of changes being made as a result of the work of the 
Constitutional Review Commission. I also appreciate Senator Biden's 
modifying the amendment to note that whatever the political settlement 
is, be it pursuant to the current or revised constitutional provisions, 
it should be based on the ''wishes of the Iraqi people and their 
elected leaders'' as we don't want to suggest that we are trying to 
impose anything on the Iraqis.