---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `fc7e768818c49087ab2aa52958c791dd`
`Mr. FORTENBERRY — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. FORTENBERRY. Mr. Speaker, before we vote on this measure, the 
American people need to know that U.S. troops in Iraq have achieved 
significant security gains. Violence against U.S. troops and Iraqi 
civilians has fallen dramatically, and forces of chaos have had their 
safe havens and supply lines systematically eliminated. In fact, it was 
recently announced that the curfew in Baghdad may soon be lifted.

Mr. Speaker, we can all agree that the goal is to end the war, but 
this must be done in a solicitous and strategic manner. While there is 
clearly military momentum in Iraq, the situation remains fragile and 
complex, and our work continues to be very dangerous and difficult. 
Establishing an arbitrary deadline for withdrawal of our troops would 
potentially undermine the stabilization of the country, especially in 
light of recent security gains.

However, I would submit that one area of potential agreement in this 
body involves a renewed spirit of diplomacy for the region. It is time 
for a diplomatic surge. The gains made possible by the steadfast 
competence of our troops gives rise to a new diplomatic potential in 
the effort to curtail regional destabilizing influences, promote 
political and economic progress, as well as provide for the safe and 
stable transition of refugees throughout the area.

The recent meeting in Istanbul, Turkey of countries neighboring Iraq, 
the upcoming meeting in Annapolis to further the Middle East peace 
process, and the United Nation's own recent reengagement in Baghdad are 
all positive diplomatic trends that should be aggressively supported 
and augmented by our efforts in this House to facilitate the rapid 
stabilization of Iraq, potentially empowering an even more rapid 
drawdown of our troops and a sustainable peace for the country.