---
---

# IN RECOGNITION OF ARMY STAFF SERGEANT CARLO M. ROBINSON
## `fcc77671beaaca8f0e9ec9f02490af80`
`Mr. ROSS — 27 January 2009`

---


Mr. ROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize a true American 
hero. On January 17, 2009, our Nation and our state lost a brave 
soldier when Army Staff Sergeant Carlo Montel Robinson died in Bagram, 
Afghanistan, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. He died of 
wounds sustained in Kabul, Afghanistan, when a vehicle-borne improvised 
explosive device detonated near his vehicle.

Staff Sergeant Robinson grew up in Hope, Arkansas--a tight-knit 
community where I had the privilege of growing up as well. Although I 
never had the honor to meet Staff Sergeant Robinson, on behalf of the 
community of Hope, I extend my utmost condolences to his family, 
friends and all who knew him for this devasting loss.

Staff Sergeant Robinson was assigned to the 1st Maneuver Enhancement 
Brigade at Fort Polk, La., and carried out his duties with pride in his 
country and without reservation. Staff Sergeant Robinson spent the last 
thirteen years in the U.S. Army where he served with distinction and 
dedication, epitomizing a true patriot.

My deepest thoughts and prayers are with his daughters, Carneshia and 
Destiny, son, Da'karia, mother, Jennifer, grandmother, Martha, and the 
rest of his family, friends and loved ones during this difficult time.

Today, I ask all members of Congress to join me as we honor the life 
of Staff Sergeant Carlo Robinson and his legacy, and all those men and 
women in our Armed Forces who gave the ultimate sacrifice in service to 
their country.
