---
---

# PROVIDING ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES TO SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR  AFGHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION
## `fce072e620f0f1801b087d72ecd5316f`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 June 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank you for 
your leadership in bringing this legislation to the floor today. I want 
to also thank Senator Collins for introducing this legislation in the 
Senate.

Mr. Speaker, I stand here today to support Amending the National 
Defense Authorization


Act for Fiscal Year 2008 to authorize the Special Inspector General for 
Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) to exercise certain employment and 
employment-related authorities currently permitted for the heads of 
temporary organizations established by law or executive order.

As a member of the Homeland Security Committee, and Co-Chair of the 
US-Afghan Caucus, I am deeply concerned about this matter and want to 
ensure that the Inspector General's staffing needs are fulfilled in 
order for him to successfully carry out the responsibilities of his 
position. In order to be successful in Afghanistan and defeat the 
insurgents, we must make sure that we have a fully staffed SIGAR who is 
able to complete the duties of his position in a timely and accurate 
manner. The security of our troops and the success of our mission in 
Afghanistan depends upon it.

Since 2001, the U.S. has provided approximately $32 billion in 
humanitarian and reconstruction assistance to Afghanistan. In addition, 
the international community has provided a further $25.3 billion for 
the rebuilding of Afghanistan. Since its inception in 2001, the SIGAR's 
mission has been to enhance oversight of programs for the 
reconstruction of Afghanistan by conducting independent and objective 
audits, inspections, and investigations on the use of taxpayer dollars 
and related funds by keeping the Congress, as well as the Secretaries 
of State and Defense, currently informed of reconstruction progress and 
weaknesses.

Amending this defense bill reflects our commitment to support the men 
and women who fight to secure not only our citizen's freedom but the 
freedom of others. This bill will provide the necessary resources to 
protect the American people and our national interests at home and 
abroad. With this extended personnel authority, the SIGAR has now 
become a formidable and compelling instrument to make oversight of 
reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan a reality.