---
---

# None
## `fcef582856b8a3994a606c8696acbc47`
`Mr. CARPER — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. Madam President, I want to start where the Senator from 
North Dakota concluded his remarks, to express the gratitude of 
Delaware for the fine work the appropriations subcommittee has done, 
the leadership of Senator Inouye and Senator Stevens, their staffs, the 
other members of the committee. One of the letters I sent to Senator 
Inouye and Senator Stevens several weeks ago was a letter calling on 
them to not rescind, through legislative language in the appropriations 
bill, the 2004 Defense authorization language which said we were not 
going to allow the Air Force to retire any additional C-5 aircraft 
until the first three had been fully modernized, flight tested, and 
then evaluated. A number of us signed that letter and a number of us in 
the same letter also called for the Appropriations Subcommittee on 
Defense to endorse the President's budget proposal for fiscal 2008 with 
respect to C-5 modernization. The subcommittee has done that. I thank 
them in a very public way for their attention to our request.

Today we are considering an important bill, one that provides funding 
for our troops, many in harm's way around the world, others in 
different phases of training or in some cases retraining or rest after 
they have been deployed abroad. As we vote to appropriate these funds 
for our Nation's defense, we are reminded of one of the fundamental 
duties of our military. Our Armed Forces are charged with providing our 
Commander in Chief and military leaders with flexible options for 
responding to a wide variety of threats. In Iraq, our Armed Forces are 
keeping the lid on civil war and protecting civilians from terrorists 
and literally from one another. In Korea, our Armed Forces are charged 
with guarding the ally's border and deterring aggression on the part of 
a large conventional military on the other side of the South Korean 
border. In the Pacific and the Persian Gulf, they protect America's 
interests through the projection of naval power and carrier-based air 
power.

At home our National Guard provides the Nation's Governors with 
critical response capability to cope with natural disasters such as 
Katrina. At times it can seem as though the demands on our military are 
almost limitless. Unfortunately, the resources available for equipping 
our military to meet these demands are not limitless. At a time when 
our Federal budget remains mired in red ink, we need to be looking for 
ways to effectively meet our military requirements but to do so in a 
fiscally responsible manner.

Last Thursday in the Federal Financial Management Subcommittee of the 
Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee, we spent 3 hours 
doing just that. In this hearing, which I chaired along with Senator 
Coburn of Oklahoma, we explored how we can best meet our Nation's 
strategic airlift needs and how we can do this in a way that is 
fiscally responsible. What I wish to do is take a few minutes this 
afternoon to remind us why airlift is important and to offer a little 
history of how we got into the position we are in today. Then I wish to 
share with my colleagues some of what we learned at our hearing last 
week.

The bottom line is that regardless of whether strategic airlift is 
performed by C-5s, by C-17s, or by some other capability, airlift is 
essential to our Nation's ability to project power and meet threats 
abroad. I would remind us that roughly 90 percent of the materiel we 
move around the world goes by sea. Maybe 10 percent goes by air. When 
it comes to moving military personnel, almost all of them are moved 
around the world by airlift. When you think of the 10 percent or so of 
cargo that is moved by aircraft, roughly half of that is moved by C-5s, 
C-17s, and by C-130s. The other half is moved by commercial aircraft 
the Air Force leases from time to time.

The bottom line is that regardless of whether we are moving goods or 
personnel by C-5, C-17, or some other capability, we have to have that 
capability when we need it and it has to be reliable.

Though the men and women of our strategic airlift fleet rarely get 
the attention they deserve, the reality is our military could not 
perform its missions if it were not for the hard work and dedication of 
the airlift. Strategic airlift involves the use of cargo aircraft to 
move personnel, weaponry, materiel over long distance, often to combat 
theaters on the other side of the globe. During the current war in 
Iraq, airlift sorties have made up the majority of the nearly 35,000 
total sorties flown by U.S. aircraft. Strategic airlift enables our 
military to respond to threats wherever they occur in the world real 
time. Not only must our fighting men and women be transported to the 
fight, they must be continually supplied. Airlift helps to make that 
happen. Both the C-17 and the C-5 have fulfilled their lift duties 
admirably, and the United States owes much of its rapid deployment 
capability to these fine machines.

We are blessed in Delaware at the Dover Air Force Base to have both 
C-5Bs and a new squadron of C-17s. However, the problem is that over 
the past 10 years, the United States has reduced its Cold War 
infrastructure and closed two-thirds of our forward bases. I remember 
many of the bases my squad and I used to fly out of in Vietnam. A lot 
of the bases in Thailand from which we flew missions in Southeast Asia, 
Okinawa, and the Philippines have now been closed. We no longer fly 
from those particular places. As a result, our ability to project our 
troops by air power as well as by sea power is more important than 
ever.


One of the ways we have sought to keep the strategic airlift fleet 
healthy and ready to meet this challenge is by modernizing the C-5 
through two unique programs. One is called the Avionics Modernization 
Program, where we take a 1960s, 1970s cockpit and turn it into a 
cockpit for the 21st century. The second is a program called the 
Reliability Enhancement and Re-engining Program, where we literally 
take old C-5 engines, take them out--they break down about every 5,000 
flight hours anyway--and replace them with an engine that will give us 
10,000 hours between engine changes; change out the hydraulic system, 
overhaul the landing gear system, fix some 70 systems in all, and, 
again, replace the cockpit.

Those are the kinds of things that are done with the modernization 
process that is underway. So far, three aircraft have been fully 
modernized; three C-5s have been fully modernized and are being flight 
tested as we speak here today. In fact, collectively they have been 
flown over 500 hours, and the full evaluation is to be completed--I 
think the flight evaluation will be done for the most part within the 
next 12 months, and some flight evaluations will be completed by June 
of 2010.

Lockheed Martin is the prime contractor in the program. They are 
obligated to produce C-5Ms with a mission-capable rate that meets or 
exceeds 75 percent. That is well above where the C-5 is today. It is, 
frankly, slightly below where the C-17 is today.



Lockheed reports that nothing in the flight data to date, after over 
500 hours of flight testing, suggests the 75 percent mission-capable 
rate cannot be met or exceeded. The Assistant Secretary for Acquisition 
of the U.S. Air Force last week in our hearing concurred in that 
opinion. Consequently, I was compelled, along with Senator Coburn, to 
hold a hearing to find out an answer to a very contentious question, 
and here is the question: At what price per aircraft could Lockheed or 
would Lockheed modernize all or part of the remaining C-5 fleet of 108 
aircraft?

This past summer, Lockheed offered to modernize the C-5 fleet at what 
they call a flyaway cost of--a little less than $90 million per 
aircraft, whether the Congress and the administration decide to 
modernize half of the C-5 fleet, two-thirds of the C-5 fleet or all 108 
C-5s. If Lockheed can deliver C-5s at a mission-capable rate of 75 
percent or higher, at a flyaway cost of $85 million, $95 million or 
even $105 million, aircraft capable of flying another quarter of a 
century or more, we would be foolish not to modernize the remaining 108 
C-5s. If Lockheed cannot deliver--cannot deliver aircraft that are 75 
percent mission-capable rate or higher--if they can't deliver them at a 
cost we are willing to pay--then we need to find another alternative.

Now, the Air Force has questioned whether Lockheed will actually be 
able to deliver what the company has promised. The Air Force has 
suggested the cost of fully modernizing the C-5s may significantly 
exceed original expectations. This has led the Air Force to conclude 
that C-5 modernization may not be as cost effective as we all had 
originally thought and hoped.

I wish to take a moment and share with my colleagues three areas in 
which the Air Force and Lockheed appear to be in disagreement. As you 
can see from the chart beside me, the Air Force and Lockheed disagree 
on the modernizing of C-5s in three areas. No. 1, propulsion system, 
that is aircraft engine; No. 2, installation costs and what they call 
touch labor costs, or the amount of man-hours to be invested in these 
changes; and finally, overhead costs which include, among other things, 
the kinds of problems that might be uncovered as Lockheed goes through 
and conducts the modernization of the C-5s--problems that aren't even 
related to the modernization changes that are being installed.

Now, this disagreement yields a C-5 modernization cost discrepancy of 
over $4 billion--not a small amount of money. With this fundamental 
cost disagreement coming to light, our hearing tried to get into the 
true cost of C-5 modernization. What we found was a temporary 
stalemate. We also found what appears to be a way forward. In their 
cost calculations of the C-5 modernization, the Air Force determined 
the cost of the C-5 modernization has grown over its baseline, causing 
the view of at least some in the Air Force to trigger what we call a 
Nunn-McCurdy breach. The Nunn-McCurdy breach, as some will recall, is 
part of a law passed in 1983 that allows Congress to track the rising 
costs of Defense programs. A breach of Nunn-McCurdy occurs when a 
Defense program procurement cost goes beyond 50 percent of its 
baseline. When this happens, the Department of Defense has to notify 
the Congress and the program is more heavily scrutinized, in this case 
by the office of the Secretary of Defense. Interestingly enough, 
though, we found that part of the Air Force calculation includes costs 
of inflation due to the risks the Air Force may incur if Lockheed 
cannot meet its goals. Lockheed also stated they have a different 
calculation to show some growth but not enough to trigger a Nunn-
McCurdy breach.


Lockheed's witness at our hearing last Thursday stated that the 
contractor--that is Lockheed--is ready to alleviate the Air Force's 
concerns and, therefore, to decrease the amount of cost growth that the 
C-5 modernization would realize by providing the Air Force with a firm, 
fixed price contract to modernize all 108 aircraft at a set cost. If 
Lockheed exceeds this price, then the cost is on them--on Lockheed. The 
only obstacle--major obstacle at least--that stands in Lockheed's way 
is the Air Force's decision on how fast they want to fully modernize 
the C-5s. The President's budget for 2008 calls for modernizing C-5s, 
one starting in fiscal 2008, ramping up from 1 to as many as 12 several 
years down the line. But the contractors need to know how many aircraft 
are going to be modernized, and in order for them to be able to be held 
or bound to a fixed cost, they have to have some reasonable assurance 
that what is being projected will actually be followed, in this case by 
the Air Force and by us in the Congress.

Let me mention a couple of things in closing. One, it says propulsion 
system. This is one of the three areas of disagreement between Lockheed 
and the Air Force. This involves engines--actually the same engine that 
goes on Air Force One and a whole lot of other aircraft around the 
world. The engine, made by General Electric, provides generally between 
engine changes about 10,000 flight hours. It would replace an engine 
that gets about 1,000 hours between engine changes. That is a 
miserable-performing engine that is on the C-5, and it has led to all 
kinds of problems. There is a question about what is GE going to charge 
Lockheed to sell them four new engines for 108 planes, plus 25 spares. 
I think that ends up being about 457 engines.

In our conversation offline with GE, they gave us a price well below 
what the Air Force is expecting or is calculating. If GE is good to 
their word and Lockheed is good to its word, then this $1.2 billion 
deficit--or in the case of the Air Force, ostensibly an overrun--that 
shouldn't be there. That shouldn't be there. The question is, Can GE 
and Lockheed be compelled--contractually bound--to provide these 
engines at the lower cost that was quoted to us by GE.

The second piece deals with labor, touch labor costs, the amount of 
man-hours that will be used to build these or rebuild these aircraft. 
The first of the C-5s that were modernized took 143,000 man-hours, the 
second took 125,000, the third took about 110,000 man-hours. Lockheed 
says they think they can bring it in at about 100,000 man-hours. The 
Air Force says, no, 116,000 man-hours. Lockheed has a learning curve in 
terms of better, faster work on the modernization that they believe 
they can adhere to. The Air Force says, no, that is too optimistic.

Interestingly enough, though, Lockheed has said to the Air Force and 
to us at our hearing, if we are wrong on the number of man-hours that 
we say it is going to take to modernize the fourth, fifth or sixth 
aircraft, if we are wrong on the learning curve and not as successful 
as we think we are going to be, we will eat the cost. They say they 
will eat the cost. That is great that they offer that, but what we need 
is a contract that can bind them to eat the cost if there is a failure 
to perform as otherwise would be suggested.

Those are the kinds of things that are in dispute. Ultimately, I 
would hope--and I can't speak for Senator Coburn, but I believe I would 
share his view that we need large cargo aircraft. We have C-5s. They 
can carry more than most cargo aircraft. Right now, we are using 
Russian aircraft, Russian-made aircraft, a big aircraft called the AN-
124, to supplement the work that the C-5 can do. We spend today almost 
$200 million leasing Soviet aircraft or Russian aircraft to do the work 
for us of the strategic airlift. Nothing against the Russians, God 
bless them, but I don't know how comfortable you feel--I don't feel all 
that comfortable--relying on Russian cargo aircraft to supplement our 
needs around the world.

My hope is that what we will do is have our friends from Lockheed and 
our friends from the Air Force step back, for a moment, and then 
reengage in a way that seeks to narrow this, what you call a $4 billion 
delta or difference, in the assumption of costs for completing this 
project.

If Lockheed can produce fully modernized C-5Ms that will perform at a 
75-percent mission-capable rate or more and do that at a cost of $85 
million, $95 million or even $105 million on a flyaway basis, we would 
be foolish to turn down that deal. If they can't do it, if they can't 
deliver aircraft at that kind of mission-capable rate, if they can't do 
it along the line that I quoted as a price that we can be assured of, 
then we need to look for another alternative.

My hope, coming out of our hearing last week, is that there is a way 
forward, and we need the best efforts of


the Air Force and the best efforts of Lockheed to find it. If we get 
those best efforts, we may end up with what in the end will not be just 
a good deal for our country and for our taxpayers at a time when we are 
running huge budget deficits but a good deal for the men and women of 
the Armed Forces who are depending on strategic airlift every day of 
their lives.

I yield the floor.