# None
## `fcf21da0f861c1dbc532c3ebb3aa87d3`
`Mr. KENNEDY â€” 31 July 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, many of the best ideas in public policy 
are the simplest.

The Children's Health Insurance Program is based on one simple and 
powerful idea--that all children deserve a healthy start in life, and 
that no parents should have to worry about whether they can afford to 
take their child to the doctor when the child is sick. CHIP can make 
the difference between a child starting life burdened with disease, or 
a child who is healthy and ready to learn and grow.

This need not be a partisan issue. My good friend Senator Hatch and I 
worked together in 1997 to create this program that was our shared 
vision for a healthier future for American children. This year we have 
once again worked together to find common ground on covering the 
children who deserve decent, quality health care.

In Massachusetts in the 1990s we agreed that health care coverage for 
children is a necessity and that action needed to be taken. In 1993, 
the Massachusetts Legislature passed the Children's Medical Security 
Plan, which guaranteed quality health care to children in families 
ineligible for Medicaid and unable to afford health insurance.

A year later, Massachusetts expanded eligibility for Medicaid and 
financed the expansion through a tobacco tax--the same approach we used 
successfully a few years later for CHIP and he same approach that is 
proposed in the bill before us now.

Rhode Island followed and other States took similar action and helped 
create a nationwide demand for action by Congress to address the unmet 
needs of vast numbers of children for good health care.

In 1997, Congress acted on that call, and the result was CHIP. 
Senator Hatch and I worked together then--as we have this year--to 
focus on guaranteeing health care to children who need it. Now, in 
every State in America and in Puerto Rico, CHIP covers the services 
that give children a healthier start in life--well child care, 
vaccinations, doctor visits, emergency services, and many others.

We know that CHIP works. Children across America depend on it for 
their health care, but there are still too many children that are left 
uninsured.

In its first year 1997, CHIP enrolled nearly a million children, and 
enrollment has grown ever since. An average of 4 million are now 
covered each month, and 6 million are enrolled each year. In every 
State in America and in Puerto Rico, CHIP covers the services that give 
children a healthier start in life--well child care, vaccinations, 
doctor visits, emergency services, and many others.

As a result, in the past decade, the percentage of uninsured children 
has dropped from almost 23 percent in 1997 to 14 percent today. That 
reduction is significant, but it is obviously far from enough.

Children on CHIP are more likely to have a regular source of care 
than uninsured children. Ninety-seven percent of CHIP children can see 
a doctor regularly compared to only 62 percent of uninsured children.

What does this mean for these children? It means that their overall 
quality of life is improved because they can get the care they need 
when they need it. Their parents are more confident that they can get 
the health care they need, they are more likely to have a real doctor 
and a real place to obtain care, and their parents don't delay seeking 
care when their child needs it. Children on CHIP also have 
significantly more access to preventive care.

Studies also show that CHIP helps to improve children's school 
performance. After just 1 year on CHIP, children pay better attention 
in class and are more likely to keep up with all school activities. 
When children are receiving the health care they need, they do better 
academically, emotionally, physically and socially. CHIP helps create 
children who will be better prepared to contribute to America.

CHIP has perhaps had the greatest impact on minority communities. 
Sadly, we still have persistent racial and ethnic health disparities in 
America. African Americans have a lower life expectancy than Whites. 
Many Americans want to believe such disparities don't exist, but 
ignoring them only contributes more to the widening gap between the 
haves and have-nots. Minority children are much more likely to suffer 
from asthma, diabetes, HIV/AIDS and other diseases than their White 
counterparts.

Minorities are more likely to be uninsured than Whites. More than 
half of all children who receive public health insurance belong to a 
racial and ethnic minority group. The good news is that since the 
beginning of CHIP, the number of uninsured Latino children has 
decreased by nearly one-third and the number of uninsured African-
American children has decreased by almost half.

Having CHIP works for minority children. CHIP all but eliminates the 
distressing racial and ethnic health disparities for the minority 
children who disproportionately depend on it for their coverage. 
Minority children are more likely to have their health care needs met. 
In other word, they can see the doctor when they need to, go to the 
hospital and get the medicines they need, just like other children, 
when they are on CHIP.

They are also more likely to have a real doctor--not just sporadic 
visits to the emergency room--when they are covered by CHIP.

For specific diseases like asthma, children on CHIP have much better 
outcomes than when they were uninsured.

CHIP's success is even more impressive and important when we realize


that more and more adults are losing their own insurance coverage, 
because employers reduce it or drop it entirely.

That is why organizations representing children, or the health care 
professionals who serve them, agree that preserving and strengthening 
CHIP is essential to children's health. The American Academy of 
Pediatrics, First Focus, the American Medical Association, the National 
Association of Children's Hospitals and countless other organizations 
dedicated to children all strongly support CHIP.

A statement by the American Academy of Pediatrics puts it this way:




 Ennrollment in SCHIP is associated with improved access, 


 continuity, and quality of care, and a reduction in racial/


 ethnic disparities. As pediatricians, we see what happens 


 when children don't receive necessary health care services 


 such as immunizations and well-child visits. Their overall 


 health suffers and expensive emergency room visits increase.


Today, we are here to dedicate ourselves to carrying on the job begun 
by Congress 10 years ago, and to make sure that the lifeline of CHIP is 
strengthened and extended to many more children.

Millions of children now eligible for CHIP or Medicaid are not 
enrolled in these programs. Of the 9 million uninsured children, over 
two-thirds--more than 6 million--are already eligible for Medicaid or 
CHIP. These programs are there to help them, but these children are not 
receiving that help either because their parents don't know about the 
programs, or because of needless barriers to enrollment.

Think about that number--9 million children in the wealthiest and 
most powerful nation on Earth. Nine million children whose only family 
doctor is the hospital emergency room. Nine million children at risk of 
blighted lives and early death because of illnesses that could easily 
be treated if they have a regular source of medical care.

Nine million uninsured children in America isn't just wrong--it is 
outrageous, and we need to change it as soon as possible.

We know where the Bush administration stands. The President's 
proposal for CHIP doesn't provide what is needed to cover children who 
are eligible but unenrolled. In fact, the President's proposal is $8 
billion less than what is needed simply to keep children now enrolled 
in CHIP from losing their current coverage--$8 billion short. To make 
matters worse, the President has threatened to veto the Senate bill 
which does the job that needs to be done if we are serious about 
guaranteeing decent health care to children of working families across 
America.

We cannot rely on the administration to do what is needed. We in 
Congress have to step up to the plate and renew our commitment to CHIP.

The Senate bill is a genuine bipartisan compromise.

It provides coverage to 4 million children who would otherwise be 
uninsured.

It adjusts the financing structure of CHIP so that States that are 
covering their children aren't forced to scramble for additional funds 
from year to year and so that Congress doesn't have to pass a new band-
aid every year to stop the persistent bleeding under the current 
program.

Importantly, this bill will not allow States to keep their CHIP funds 
if they aren't doing something to actually cover children.

Equally important, this bill allows each State to cover children at 
income levels that make sense for their State.

The bill also supports quality improvement and better outreach and 
enrollment efforts for the program. It is a scandal that 6 million 
children today who are eligible for the program are not enrolled in it.

In sum, this bill moves us forward together, Republicans and 
Democrats alike, to guarantee the children of America the health care 
they need and deserve.

Our priority should be not merely to hold on to the gains of the 
past, but to see that all children have an access to decent coverage. 
Families with greater means should pay a fair share of the coverage. 
But every parent in America should have the opportunity to meet the 
health care needs of their children.

In Massachusetts, I met a woman named Dedre Lewis. Her daughter 
Alexsiana developed an eye disease that if left untreated would make 
her go blind. Because of our State CHIP program, Masshealth, Dedre is 
able to get the medicine and doctors visits need to prevent Alexsiana's 
blindness. Dedre said this:




 If I miss a single appointment, I know she could lose her 


 eyesight. If I can't buy her medication, I know she could 


 lose her eyesight. If I didn't have Masshealth, my daughter 


 would be blind.


This is the impact CHIP has on families across America.

Let me say that quality health for children isn't just an interesting 
option or a nice idea. It is not just something we wish we could do. It 
is an obligation. It is something we have to do. And it is something we 
can do today. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure 
this very important legislation is enacted.

I want to pick up on a theme I mentioned just a few minutes ago, and 
I stand to be corrected. I would say there is not a single Member of 
the Senate who doesn't take, effectively, the Federal employees 
insurance program, and in our situation, the Federal Government pays 
for 72 percent of it. We have one Member, and I admire him--I have just 
learned of his name, and I will not mention it here; I will ask whether 
I can include it as part of the Record rather than embarrass him--but 
it is a noble act on his part when he said that until we get universal 
coverage, he wasn't going to take this.

But the idea that all Americans ought to understand now is what we 
are standing for--and I again commend the Senator from Montana and the 
Senator from Iowa and my friend, Senator Hatch, when we worked together 
years ago, and Senator Rockefeller on this program--is a rather simple 
and fundamental concept, and that is this: Every child in America ought 
to have a healthy start.

Here in the Senate, we are about expressing priorities. Those of us 
on this side of the aisle and a group on the other side--a small group 
on the other side, a courageous group on the other side--have stated 
that same concept, that every child in America should have a healthy 
start, No. 1; and No. 2, that every parent in America should be 
relieved of the anxiety of worrying about whether they have sufficient 
resources to be able to make sure their child is going to receive 
decent quality health care. Those are revolutionary thoughts, are they 
not? Those are surprising concepts; isn't that right?

Evidently, our friends on the other side of the aisle get all worked 
up about those two concepts--that all children in this country should 
have a healthy start and that mothers and fathers should be relieved of 
the anxiety that when their child has an earache or their child has a 
soar throat or their child has a headache, they have to wonder whether 
their child is 150 dollars or 175 dollars sick because that is what it 
costs to take them to the emergency room. So they wait overnight. They 
let the child get a little sicker. They have a sleepless night. They 
worry. They hope and they pray that their child gets better. Well, we 
in this body say that America can do better.

I listened to my friend--and he is my friend--from Mississippi 
talking about the cost of this program: $60 billion over 5 years. That 
is what we are spending in 5 months in Iraq--5 months in Iraq. What 
would the American people rather have--coverage for their children or a 
continued conflict in Iraq where we are losing the blood of our young 
men and women? This is the issue. Let's not complicate it. Let's not 
make it difficult. Let's not make it unreasonable. That is what this is 
about.

Sure, we have listened to the arguments: Oh, someone is going to have 
to pay for it. Yes, it is going to be those who are smoking. What is 
the result of increasing the tobacco tax? What is the direct result? 
Tobacco--cigarettes--when used as advertised increases deaths in 
America. Among whom? Among children. Every day, 2,800 children become 
addicted. Every year, 500,000 people die because of the use of tobacco. 
So what happens if we raise the tax 61 cents on cigarettes? You know 
what happens. Children stop smoking. Oh, they do? Yes, they do. Who 
says so? Who says so? Just look at the history of what has happened 
when we have increased the tax on cigarettes.

So I commend those on the Finance Committee for finding a revenue 
measure that will ensure--not that all children will stop smoking and 
end it but


that this will be a major disincentive for young people to smoke. On 
the other hand, it gives children a healthy start and relieves the 
anxiety for parents.

So this is a measure which speaks for action. It speaks for justice. 
It speaks for fairness. It speaks for our values. I, for one, strongly 
believe in the concept of comprehensive health care, and we will have 
that debate at another place and at another time.

I know my children were covered. They are grown now, as others have 
been here, but I know when they needed health care, they were able to 
receive it. I remember very clearly that when my child lost his leg to 
cancer, we saw families in that chamber who were absolutely driven into 
poverty because they couldn't afford the same kind of health care we 
had.

This is a statement that we in the Senate find children to be a 
priority and find their parents to be a priority and find it to be in 
the interest of children to increase the tobacco tax.

This legislation makes a great deal of sense, and I again commend the 
sponsors for it.

Whatever time remains I yield to my friend and colleague from 
Connecticut.