# TRANS-ATLANTIC LEGISLATORS' DIALOGUE HOLDS 65TH MEETING UNDER  LEADERSHIP OF THE HON. SHELLEY BERKLEY
## `fcfa701310045876a500277796235b11`
`Mr. BERMAN — 13 January 2009`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Madam Speaker, I would like to call the attention of my 
colleagues in the Congress to a successful meeting of the Transatlantic 
Legislators' Dialogue, TLD, that was held in Miami, FL from December 6-
8, 2008. Chairwoman Shelley Berkley, the gentlelady from Nevada, has 
consistently provided dynamic and capable guidance to this important 
interparliamentary exchange. The TLD vice-chairmen, Representative Jim 
Costa from California and Representative Cliff Stearns from Florida, 
should be commended for their leadership in helping to strengthen 
American relationships with our European colleagues. I also wish to 
thank the ranking member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, 
Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, for being a gracious hostess of 
this meeting in her sunny district and ably assisting the delegation.

Representatives Berkley, Costa and Stearns were joined by six other 
members at the Miami session. This bipartisan delegation--which also 
included Representative Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Representative 
Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Representative Susan Davis (D-CA), 
Representative Phil Gingrey (R-GA), Representative Virginia Foxx (R-
NC), and Representative Ron Klein (D-FL)--ensured an informed and 
productive exchange of views with members of the European Parliament.

The TLD serves as the formal response of the European Parliament and 
the U.S. Congress to the commitment in the New Transatlantic Agenda, 
NTA, of 1995 to enhance legislative ties between the European Union and 
the United States. Building on the existing interparliamentary 
relationship, the TLD involves bi-annual meetings between American and 
European legislators in order to discuss topics of mutual interest and 
foster transatlantic discourse.

During this time of transition in the United States Government, it is 
particularly important that legislators continue to collaborate on the 
many important issues facing citizens on both sides of the Atlantic. 
The TLD discussions in Miami addressed a wide range of foreign policy 
challenges, focusing on the recent terrorist attacks in Mumbai as well 
as international efforts to address the ongoing challenges in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan. Members also discussed the current status of 
diplomatic initiatives regarding the Iranian nuclear threat and the 
repercussions of the Georgia-Russia conflict. American members 
responded to European concerns about data protection and the complexity 
of application procedures as part of the visa waiver program. During 
the discussion of regulatory initiatives being undertaken by the 
Transatlantic Economic Council, TEC, American members encouraged their 
European counterparts to address the EU ban on


the import of American poultry as well as discriminatory regulations on 
chemicals used to manufacture cosmetics--both of which have detrimental 
effects on American farmers and producers. In addition, the delegates 
discussed the challenge of climate change, the importance of energy 
security, and joint efforts needed to address the global financial 
crisis.

Madam Speaker, I would like to enter into the Congressional Record 
the joint statement that was agreed upon by American and European 
legislators at the 65th TLD meeting in Miami. This document 
demonstrates the depth and breadth of the interparliamentary 
discussions while also highlighting the scope of excellent 
transatlantic cooperation.

 Joint Statement of Jonathan Evans, MEP, Chairman, European Parliament 


Delegation; Shelley Berkley, Chairwoman, United States Congress 
 Delegation; Cliff Stearns, Vice Chairman (Ranking Republican), United 
States Congress Delegation; and Jim Costa, Vice Chairman, United States 


Congress Delegation at the 65th Meeting of Delegations From the 

 European Parliament and the United States Congress, December 2008




 We, Members of the European Parliament and the United 


 States House of Representatives, held our 65th 


 Interparliamentary meeting (Transatlantic Legislators' 


 Dialogue) in Miami, Florida on 6-8 December 2008.



 Building on the joint statement issued after our last 


 meeting in Ljubljana, Slovenia, on 24-26 May 2008, we 


 reiterated the importance of regular dialogue on a range of 


 political, social and economic issues that affect all of our 


 citizens. We welcomed the new U.S. administration and look 


 forward to the election of a new European Parliament and 


 European Commission next summer. We discussed ways in which 


 to utilize this time of political change on both sides of the 


 Atlantic to further enhance our transatlantic relations and 


 deepen our cooperation. We confirmed that legislators on both 


 sides of the Atlantic should increase dialogue and 


 consultation amongst themselves in order to prevent possible 


 conflicts in the legislative and regulatory regimes. In 


 particular, direct and timely contacts between specialist 


 committees within our legislatures have been valuable means 


 of reinforcing cooperation and should be continued. We agreed 


 to report back to the European Parliament and U.S. Congress 


 on the content and outcome of our discussions, particularly 


 in the areas where joint efforts are likely to result in 


 positive outcomes.



 We examined a wide array of foreign policy issues, agreeing 


 that joint action by the European Union and the United States 


 is the most effective way to approach many pressing 


 international challenges. We welcomed the results of the EU-


 U.S. summit in Brdo, Slovenia in June 2008 and stressed the 


 importance of the principles contained in the final 


 declaration. In particular, we agreed that both sides should 


 continue to demonstrate global leadership and effective 


 transatlantic cooperation in the face of challenges such as:



 Promoting international peace, stability, democracy, human 


 rights, international criminal justice, sustainable 


 development, the rule of law and good governance; and



 Fighting terrorism while protecting the fundamental 


 freedoms on which our democratic societies are built.



 We discussed the recent terrorist attack in Mumbai, India, 


 expressing our condolences to the families of those who lost 


 their lives and condemning the attacks. We called on the 


 governments of India and Pakistan to cooperate in reducing 


 tensions in the region, called on the government of Pakistan 


 to participate fully in the investigation, and asked the U.S. 


 and EU to assist in these efforts.



 On Afghanistan, we recognized the need for a joint long-


 term strategy aimed at stabilizing the internal situation and 


 reducing risks for regional security. We welcomed the EU's 


 decision to expand its EUPOL police training mission from 250 


 to 400 personnel.



 On Iran, we assessed the continuing nuclear threat. We 


 pledged to continue our cooperative efforts to confront this 


 challenge with a unified voice, using the dual track of 


 diplomacy and strong sanctions. We called on transatlantic 


 partners to continue to press Iran to comply with its UN 


 Security Council obligations and, if needed, to move forward 


 with additional sanctions to complement UN measures.



 We assessed the August conflict between Russia and Georgia. 


 While recognizing the importance of continuing to engage in 


 dialogue with Russia about shared concerns, we emphasized 


 that we cannot return to 'business as usual' while Russia 


 continues to violate the ceasefire agreement. We stressed 


 that Russia must implement its commitments on withdrawal of 


 its military to pre-conflict positions and allow access by 


 international civilian monitors to all areas in South 


 Ossetia. We reaffirmed our continuing support for the 


 Georgian people and our commitment to aid the country's post-


 conflict reconstruction. We also expressed concern about the 


 ongoing developments in Russia's domestic and foreign 


 policies, including provocative statements regarding missile 


 deployment to Kaliningrad as well as about the reliability of 


 energy deliveries to Russia's European neighbors and 


 partners.



 The TLD welcomed the recent admission of the Czech 


 Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia to 


 the U.S. Visa Waiver Program. We expressed our hope that the 


 remaining EU Member States will be eligible to join soon and 


 that the U.S. State Department will review its administrative 


 procedures to determine whether the visa application process 


 can be simplified. We also discussed the importance of 


 ensuring safe trade as well as joint efforts to combat 


 terrorism and transnational crime. We called for the timely 


 sharing of information among our law enforcement and 


 intelligence agencies, emphasizing the importance of 


 protecting individual privacy and personal data.



 We stressed the positive impact and symbolic importance 


 that would result from an early visit and address to the 


 European Parliament by U.S. President-elect Barack Obama.



 We agreed on the need for continued discussion of possible 


 joint actions to address the effects of climate change. We 


 also called for increasing attention to the need for energy 


 security through the diversification of energy sources. We 


 discussed the United Nations Climate Change Conference in 


 Copenhagen, scheduled for the end of 2009, and expressed hope 


 that a viable and effective global agreement will be reached.



 Our dialogue focused on the financial crisis, particularly 


 the ways in which it has affected the housing market, banking 


 sector, employment and industries in Europe and the United 


 States. We expressed support for continued cooperation 


 between our governments in seeking to find collaborative 


 solutions to these problems, including through the recent G-


 20 gathering and follow-up meetings. We took stock of the 


 initiatives dealing with global financial instability, such 


 as the European Economic Recovery Plan and the U.S.'s 


 Emergency Stabilization Act of 2008.



 With regard to the Transatlantic Economic Council (TEC), we 


 noted with satisfaction the engagement of the TLD on 13 May 


 2008 with TEC Co-Chairs Gunther Verheugen and Dan Price in 


 the framework of the advisory groups. We welcome the TEC as a 


 permanent feature of the EU/U.S. relations. We look forward 


 to engaging with the TEC at the next meeting on December 12, 


 which will have particular importance as the last session 


 before the change in administrations. We called on the 


 incoming Obama Administration to take careful note of the TEC 


 outcomes and to pledge its commitment to continuing to engage 


 with the European Union through this important mechanism.



 We welcomed the progress that has been achieved since the 


 TEC's last meeting. We strongly supported the agreement to 


 recognize each others' accounting standards (U.S. GAAP and EU 


 IFRS), which will save multinational companies on both sides 


 of the Atlantic billions of dollars in compliance costs. We 


 applauded the joint statement committing to openness in 


 foreign investment, greater cooperation on the enforcement of 


 intellectual property rights (IPR), and efforts to harmonize 


 biofuels standards. We advocated stronger involvement of 


 legislators in contributing to and overseeing these 


 initiatives since many of these issues involve important 


 interests for stakeholders, such as securities regulatory 


 regimes and the creation of a level playing field for 


 insurance/reinsurance. A wide range of issues are also under 


 consideration in the High Level Regulatory Forum (HLRF) and 


 legislators should be informed in a timely manner about the 


 results of their activities.



 Several items have been identified within the TEC agenda 


 that still require legislative consideration:



 While achieving reciprocity and mutual recognition of 


 security standards remains critically important, we continued 


 to raise concerns about the U.S. Safe Ports Act and its 100 


 percent cargo scanning requirement;



 We reiterated the need to facilitate a solution to the ban 


 on imports into the EU of U.S. poultry which has undergone 


 pathogen reduction treatment, consistent with international 


 commitments; and



 Regarding the EU's regulation on the registration of 


 chemicals (REACH), we continued to call on the European 


 Commission to bring forward legislation ensuring that 


 European and U.S. producers of cosmetics are treated 


 equitably in their requirement to register substances used in 


 their products with the EU's chemical agency.



 As we have done throughout the establishment and initial 


 meetings of the TEC, we continued to assert that the TEC 


 initiative should be characterized by transparency and 


 consultation of stakeholders and we called on both 


 Administrations to reinforce the flow of information to the 


 TLD in advance of the TEC meetings. The relevant legislative 


 and regulatory bodies should be aware of the transatlantic 


 impact of proposed legislation and regulations, and 


 understand the benefits of rapid advancements towards a 


 barrier-free regulatory environment. A more formal role 


 should be envisaged within TEC for the U.S. Congress and the 


 European Parliament, in particular via TLD, so as to allow 


 for detailed and accountable reporting of TEC results to 


 legislators.



 In conclusion, both sides renewed their commitment to make 


 the TLD's work more relevant to the European Parliament and 


 to the U.S. House of Representatives. Amidst a climate of 


 transition on both sides of the Atlantic, we reaffirmed the 


 importance of continuing to strengthen and improve our 


 dialogue in order to realize the full potential of our 


 interparliamentary relationship.



