---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `fcfd695b2f9a23c4c1901a66ad77394a`
`Mr. McCAIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Finally, I thank Senator Levin for all the great work we 
have been able to do together and the wounded warrior legislation, 
which Senator Levin, under his leadership, we have now adopted as part 
of the bill.

There is another compelling argument to complete the bill. If we are 
going to take care of our wounded veterans and we are going to take 
care of the men and women who have served, I think it is a compelling 
argument that we get this legislation passed.

Finally, we have been back and forth on this issue. I do not like to 
get into the process and go back and forth. But 60 votes was not 
invented on this side, nor was it invented on the other side. The 60-
vote procedure has been employed by the minority in recent years--in my 
view, all too often. But the fact is, to somehow say it was invented 
here on this side of the aisle obviously is not the case. There were 
many times, when the Democratic Party was in the minority in this body, 
where I saw 60 votes invoked, the procedure invoked, because it was 
felt, appropriately, because that is the way the Senate works, as the 
criteria for moving forward because of the urgency or the importance of 
the pending legislation.

So what is missing here, I would say to my friend from Michigan--and 
I think he agrees with me--is what we have seen is the erosion, over 
the past 20 years I have been here, of an ability to sit down and 
discuss and agree and move forward. That is what is the missing 
ingredient here, and it has been missing for some years.

I regret it. I may be a little optimistic, but I think if it were 
only between the Senator from Michigan and me, we could dispose of most 
of these issues rather readily and establish a procedure for moving 
forward. We are now at the point--let's have some straight talk--that 
this entire bill is in jeopardy because of the imbroglio of the war in 
Iraq being added to an authorization bill which was not intended to be 
a national security piece of legislation. It was intended to be a bill 
to authorize the necessary funding, training, and equipping of the men 
and women in the military, and care for our wounded veterans has been 
added. I regret the situation as it is, but that is the way it is. We 
will spend today debating this issue and discussing it. I hope at some 
point we will realize the war is going to be going on. This bill, if it 
is passed with the Reed-Levin amendment on it, would be vetoed by the 
President. That would be a bad thing to happen. The war will be 
discussed in September again--we all know that--when General Petraeus 
is ready to report to the Senate. At some point I would hope we could 
move forward on the authorization bill and do the things that are 
necessary to help equip and train and ready the men and women serving 
in the military and preserving our national security.

Again, I appreciate the efforts the Senator from Michigan, 
distinguished chairman of the committee, is making in this direction.