---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `fd0053d35acd0bf8537d1268d15e8a32`
`Mr. OBAMA — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. OBAMA. Mr. President, let me begin by expressing my utmost 
support for Senator Warner. I am absolutely convinced of his commitment 
to our troops. I do not think there are many people in this Senate 
Chamber who understand our military better or care more deeply about 
our military. So I have the highest regard for him.

I have to say I respectfully disagree on this issue and must rise in 
strong support of the amendment offered by Senator Webb to require 
minimum periods between deployments for members of our armed services 
who are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. This amendment protects our 
brave men and women in uniform and ensures that our Armed Forces retain 
their ability to meet any challenge around the world. That is something 
that ultimately all of us have to be concerned about. I am proud to be 
a cosponsor of this amendment.

I opposed the war in Iraq from the beginning and have called 
repeatedly for a responsible end to the foreign policy disaster that 
this administration has created. Over 3,700 American service men and 
women have died in this war. Over 27,000 have been seriously wounded. 
Each month, this misguided war costs us a staggering $10 billion. When 
all is said and done, it will have cost us at least $1 trillion.

There are different views of the war in this Chamber, but there is no 
disagreement about the tremendous sacrifice of the men and women who 
are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. They have performed valiantly 
under exceedingly difficult circumstances. They have done everything we 
have asked of them. But they have also been stretched to the limit. The 
truth is, we are not keeping our sacred trust with our men and women in 
uniform. We are asking too much of them, and we are asking too much of 
their families. We owe it to our troops and their families to adopt a 
fair policy that ensures predictable rotations, adequate time to be 
with their families before redeployment, and adequate time for 
realistic training for the difficult assignments we are giving them.


Our service men and women will always answer the call of duty, but 
the reality is extended deployments and insufficient rest periods are 
taking their toll. The effects of the strain are clear: Increasing 
attrition rates, falling retention rates among West Point graduates, 
increasing rates of post-traumatic stress disorder and unprecedented 
strain on military families.

This amendment is a responsible way to keep our sacred trust while 
restoring our military to an appropriate state of readiness. It ensures 
that members of our Armed Forces who are deployed to Iraq or 
Afghanistan have at least the same amount of time at home, before they 
are redeployed. It would also ensure that members of a Reserve 
component, including the National Guard, cannot be redeployed to Iraq 
or Afghanistan within 3 years of their previous deployment.

After 4/1/2/ years of fighting in Iraq and almost 6 years of fighting 
in Afghanistan, we owe it to our troops and their families to provide 
them with a more predictable schedule with sufficient time home between 
deployments. As the Military Officers Association of America, which 
represents 368,000 members, has stated:




 If we are not better stewards of our troops and their 


 families in the future than we have been in the recent past, 


 the Military Officers Association of America believes 


 strongly that we will be putting the all-volunteer force at 


 unacceptable risk.


There are scores of anecdotes that bear out the strain on our 
families. One woman from Illinois recently wrote my office telling me 
how her husband was facing his fourth deployment in 4/1/2/ years. She 
described how her husband had spent so much time in Iraq that, in her 
words: ''He feels like he is stationed in Iraq and only deploys home.'' 
That is not an acceptable way to treat our troops. That is not an 
acceptable way to treat their families.

This amendment is not only important for military families, it is 
also important for our national security. Our military simply cannot 
sustain its current deployments without crippling our ability to 
respond to contingencies around the world.

This is all the more important since the administration has 
squandered our resources on the war in Iraq and neglected to address 
serious threats to our safety. According to the National Intelligence 
Estimate in July, al-Qaida has ''protected or regenerated key elements 
of its homeland attack capability,'' including a safe haven in 
Pakistan's tribal areas, operational lieutenants, and its top 
leadership.

Ensuring the readiness and capabilities of our troops will be crucial 
to confronting the threat of al-Qaida in Afghanistan and other parts of 
the world and deterring other threats to America's national security.

Over the coming months, I will continue to push for a new course in 
Iraq that immediately begins a safe and orderly withdrawal of our 
combat troops, that changes our military mission to focus on training 
and counterterrorism, that puts real pressure on the Iraqis to resolve 
their grievances, and that focuses our military efforts on the real 
threats facing our country.

I believe this amendment is an important part of that new course. I 
strongly urge my colleagues to support this proposal.

I yield the floor.