---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 3081,  DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `fd05eeb26cc2b4dbd5b51454c07d3fe7`
`Ms. SUTTON — 29 September 2010`

---


Ms. SUTTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak to the underlying 
legislation. In particular, I rise in strong support of the provision 
that extends the period for filing stop loss compensation claims to 
December 3 of this year.

Under the stop loss measure that I originally introduced in 2008, 
servicemen and -women, including members of the Reserve, who had their 
service extended due to stop loss after September 11, 2001, are 
eligible for stop loss pay of $500 per month.

Our brave service men and women must know that we honor and respect 
their dedication and sacrifices to protect us and our country.

I received emails from servicemembers describing the effects of stop 
loss on their lives and the lives of their families. They share the 
hardship of being stop-lossed. They share some of the things that it 
has caused--financial problems and depression, family strife, and even 
divorce.

I am pleased that this bill will give our soldiers more time to file 
for the stop loss compensation that they deserve for all of their 
extended service in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I want my colleagues to know that these payments do not go 
unappreciated and urge all of you to help get the word out about the 
stop loss pay that some may be eligible for.

Yesterday, a posting online on VetVoice illustrates the importance of 
getting the word out about this pay. A Vietnam veteran tells us of an 
account of telling a few veterans about the stop loss pay, and he says:

''One, the big guy--I am over 6 feet and 200 pounds. If I call him a 
big guy, he is a big guy--had tears streaming down his face.

'' 'I was stop-lossed 11 months ago,' he said. 'I've used up all of 
my unemployment. You mean I can get $5,500?' he sputtered through the 
tears. 'Sure,' I answered. 'It's as easy as going to the Web site and 
following the links.'

''He grabbed me in a bear hug as he told me that his wife hadn't had 
a new thing in many months. His kids didn't even get new clothes for 
school, yet alone supplies. They'd been subsisting on food stamps and 
the occasional visit to the food bank. His gratitude was more crushing 
than his considerable strength.''