---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `fd0a63dd00ff30c951a4805ef4fcd3e2`
`Mr. SPECTER — 25 October 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President. I have sought recognition to offer 
legislation to encourage Saudi Arabia to halt its support for 
institutions that fund, train, incite, encourage, or in any other way 
aid and abet terrorism, and to secure full Saudi cooperation in the 
investigation of terrorist incidents.

I offer this bill on behalf of myself and Senator Wyden. 

Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, evidence has emerged 
indicating that support for al-Qaeda, Ramas, and other organizations 
has come from Saudi Arabia.

Testimony presented to several Congressional committees, including 
the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, Judiciary Committee, and 
Intelligence committees in both houses, has indicated that Saudi Arabia 
is an epicenter for terrorist financing. These committees have also 
found the Saudi government's cooperation in investigations into the al-
Qaeda terrorist network has been lackluster.

In the 108 Congress, as a member of the Governmental Affairs 
Committee and as a member of the Judiciary Committee, we worked to 
establish a basic point that anybody who knowingly contributes to a 
terrorist organization is an accessory before the fact to murder; so 
when people contribute to al-Qaeda or Hamas, knowing that both 
organizations employ suicide bombers, they are accessories to murder.

United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373, adopted in 2001, 
mandates that all States ''refrain from providing any form of support, 
active or passive, to entities or persons involved in terrorist acts,'' 
take ''the necessary steps to prevent the commission of terrorist 
acts,'' and ''deny safe haven to those who finance, plan, support, or 
commit terrorist acts.'' There is mounting evidence that Saudi Arabia 
has not been compliant with this resolution.

The 9/11 Commission interviewed numerous military officers and 
government officials who repeatedly listed Saudi Arabia as a prime 
place for terrorists to set up bases and found that ''Saudi Arabia's 
society was a place where al-Qaeda raised money directly from 
individuals through charities.''

The Council on Foreign Relations concluded in a 2002 report that 
''for years, individuals and charities based in Saudi Arabia have been 
the most important source of funds for al-Qaeda, and for years, Saudi 
officials have turned a blind eye.''

There are indications that, since the May 12, 2003, suicide bombings 
in Riyadh, the Government of Saudi Arabia is making a more serious 
effort to combat terrorism. That said, I would like to draw attention 
to the following findings recanted by organizations which have studied 
the record of the Saudis. 

In a June 2004 report entitled ''Update on the Global Campaign 
Against Terrorist Financing,'' the Council on Foreign Relations 
reported that ''we find it regrettable and unacceptable that since 
September 11, 2001, we know of not a single Saudi donor of funds to 
terrorist groups who have been publicly punished.''

A joint committee of the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
of Representatives issued a report on July 24, 2003, that quotes 
various U.S. Government personnel who complained that the Saudis 
refused to cooperate in the investigation of Osama bin Laden and his 
network both before and after the September 11, 2001, terrorist 
attacks.

My frustration with the Saudi government's lack of cooperation in 
international counterterrorism efforts goes back more than a decade. 
After the Khobar Towers were bombed in 1996--an attack which cost 19 
American airmen their lives and injured 400 more--I traveled to 
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia to see the carnage firsthand. When I arrived, 
U.S. investigators were being denied the opportunity to interview the 
suspects apprehended by the Saudis. I personally met with Crown Prince 
Abdullah of Saudi Arabia to request that the FBI be granted access to 
the prisoners. Crown Prince Abdullah said that the U.S. should not 
meddle in Saudi internal affairs; the murder of 19 airmen and the 
wounding of 400 more hardly qualifies as a Saudi internal affair.

The Saudi government continues to drag its feet when it comes to 
cooperation in combating terrorism. The Iraq Study Group stated that 
Saudi Arabia has been ''passive and disengaged'' with regard to the 
situation in Iraq. Passive and disengaged is unacceptable when Saudi 
institutions are funding, training, inciting, and encouraging many 
terrorist actions in Iraq.

On October 23, 2007, Crown Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz stated, ''The 
Kingdom is determined to continue its policy of fighting all forms of 
terrorism.''

According to a July 27, 2007, New York Times article, ''Of an 
estimated 60 to 80 foreign fighters who enter Iraq each month, American 
military and intelligence officials say that nearly half are coming 
from Saudi Arabia and that the Saudis have not done enough to stem the 
flow.''

On October 23, 2007, Crown Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz stated, 
''Saudi Arabia's view is that dealing with the phenomenon of terrorism 
should not be confined to the mere security aspect of it but it should 
also be at the intellectual level.''

The Center for Religious Freedom, formerly affiliated with Freedom 
House, in a 2006 report entitled ''Saudi Arabia's Curriculum of 
Intolerience,'' stated that despite 2005 statements by the Saudi 
Foreign Minister that their educational curricula have been reformed, 
this is ''simply not the case.'' On the contrary, religious textbooks 
continue to advocate the destruction of any non-Wahhabi Muslim. Saudi 
Arabia has established Wahhabism, an extreme form of Islam, as the 
official state doctrine, and about 5,000,000 children are instructed 
each year in Islamic studies using Saudi Ministry of Education 
textbooks.

A fall 2007 report by the U.S. Commission on International Religious 
Freedom stated that, ''Due to insufficient information provided by the 
Saudi government, the Commission could not verify that a formal 
mechanism exists within the Saudi government to review thoroughly and 
revise educational texts and other materials sent outside of Saudi 
Arabia. It appears that the Saudi government has made little or no 
progress on efforts to halt the exportation of extremist ideology 
outside the Kingdom.'' It is important to note that fifteen of the 
nineteen 9/11 hijackers were Saudis.

In my judgment, the U.S. has been lenient with the Saudis out of 
deference to Saudi oil. It is really an open scandal that we have not 
taken action to secure some independence from our reliance on Saudi 
oil. A September 2005 Government Accountability Office report stated 
that, ''Saudi Arabia's multibillion-dollar petroleum industry, although 
largely owned by the government, has fostered the creation of large


private fortunes, enabling many wealthy Saudis to sponsor charities and 
educational foundations whose operations extend to many countries. U.S. 
Government and other expert reports have linked some Saudi donations to 
the global propagation of religious intolerance, hatred of Western 
values, and support of terrorist activities.''

The 9/11 Commission recommended that the problems in our bilateral 
relationship with Saudi Arabia must be confronted openly--this 
legislation takes a step in that direction.

The legislation expresses the sense of Congress that the Government 
of Saudi Arabia must immediately and unconditionally: 1. permanently 
close all organizations in Saudi Arabia that fund, train, incite, 
encourage, or in any way aid and abet terrorism anywhere in the World; 
2. end all funding for offshore terrorist organizations; 3. block all 
funding from private Saudi citizens and entities to Saudi-based or 
offshore terror organizations, and 4. provide complete, unrestricted, 
and unobstructed cooperation to the U.S. in the investigation of terror 
groups and individuals.

The President should certify to Congress when the Government of Saudi 
Arabia is fully cooperating with the U.S. in the actions listed above.

Two major objectives in the Global War on Terrorism are to deny 
terrorists safe haven and to eradicate the sources of terrorist 
financing. We cannot be successful in this war by ignoring the problem 
Saudi Arabia presents to our security. The government of Saudi Arabia 
can no longer remain idle while its citizenry continues to provide the 
wherewithal for terrorist groups with global reach nor can it continue 
to directly facilitate and support institutions that incite violence.

President Bush stated that the U.S. ''will challenge the enemies of 
reform, confront the allies of terror, and expect a higher standard 
from our friends.'' To be successful in the global war on terrorism we 
need the proactive and full cooperation of all nations--especially 
those who consider themselves allies of the U.S.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.