---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `fd0b0617506887d82c1be5f7ca242439`
`Mr. INOUYE — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I believe that all Members of this body 
support the Defense appropriations section. The only area of concern 
and contention is that which refers to Iraq.

I think all of us agree that our forces today are bogged down in 
Iraq. They are caught in the middle of a civil war, and we need a 
change in plans. This war has dragged on too long and, incidentally, 
longer than our involvement in World War II. Staying the course is not 
working, and I, for one, am not convinced that it ever will.

The only way we can succeed in Iraq is if the Iraqis fundamentally 
change the dynamic. The language in the conference agreement embraces 
this idea of offering a new plan. This new plan eventually should allow 
for forces to be withdrawn from Iraq.

The proposal establishes a goal--and I repeat the word ''goal''--of 
redeploying most of our forces from Iraq by next March. It does not 
mandate that all the troops are removed. To the contrary, it allows 
that forces remain in Iraq to protect U.S. and coalition personnel. It 
also stipulates that U.S. forces can continue to train and equip the 
Iraqis so they can better defend themselves, and it directs that we may 
continue targeted counterterrorism operations in Iraq.

This is a balanced plan. It recognizes that we still have 
responsibilities in Iraq and will continue to do so even a year from 
now, but it will force the Iraqis to fight their own civil war if they 
insist on doing so.

We all know there are very few military objectives to be achieved in 
Iraq. We defeated the Iraqi Army 4 years ago. We should keep that in 
mind. I still recall the huge banner on the carrier that said: 
''Mission Accomplished.'' Yes, the military mission was accomplished. 
We won that part of the war, the part the military can win. We failed 
in not preparing for the aftermath of direct conflict, and now we are 
enmeshed in an untenable position.

Our military has performed remarkably. They have achieved their 
military objectives. But the plan to rely on the military to achieve 
political objectives has not worked, and what we desperately need is a 
political solution. And in the end, how many truly believe we will 
emerge victorious with a Jeffersonian democracy on the banks of the 
Tigris River? What is victory? I have asked this question many times. 
What will constitute victory? And no one has answered that question. Or 
we can embrace a new plan that begins to reshape our forces in Iraq to 
provide those missions that our military is best suited for with a 
goal, not a mandate, but a goal of redeploying the remaining forces.

If Iraq is to succeed, it must assume responsibility for its own 
destiny. It must decide if it wants to stop the civil war. We cannot do 
that for them. This is a very modest proposal, but one that is caught 
up in the emotion of the debate. This conference report offers a plan, 
one that has much greater chance of success than staying the course.