---
---

# None
## `fd1dca64231d2df1caf100716e0f6cf7`
`Mr. LAMBORN — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Speaker, like many of my House colleagues, I 
traveled with a Congressional delegation to Iraq during the August 
recess, and I


rise now to speak about the successes that I saw and experienced 
firsthand while in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, the members of our armed services are working tirelessly 
each day and night in Iraq to rebuild this country and to ensure our 
national security. While in Iraq, I had an opportunity in Fallujah to 
meet with marines from Colorado Springs who were upbeat about the 
progress in Iraq and were certain that their accomplishments during the 
surge had produced a truly positive result. They were also equally 
concerned that people at home in the United States did not understand 
how successful they have been.

After my visit to Iraq, I am pleased to say that I am even more sure 
than ever that their mission has not been in vain. They truly are 
making a difference for the Iraqi people and for the communities in 
which these people live.

During our visit, we met with GEN David Petraeus who had many 
positive things to say about the progress that has been made since the 
surge began. For instance, he mentioned the elimination of safe havens 
for militia forces and al Qaeda, continued progress in Anbar province, 
progress in the operation and training of the Iraqi Army and 
encouraging signs of tactical successes in Baghdad. I look forward, 
like my colleagues here who've just spoken, to reading General 
Petraeus' report on the surge with great scrutiny when it is released 
this month.

I'm also delighted to hear that some of my Democratic colleagues have 
realized and acknowledged that the surge is working. I plan to continue 
to work with all of my colleagues, as well as the military and the 
administration, to ensure that the sacrifice our brave men and women 
are making in Iraq is not abandoned before the mission is completed.