---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `fd1d97f8f0a13a64520f8b2d2cd07229`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this 
legislation, and I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I oppose this legislation on two distinct grounds. On process, the 
American people should expect more from this Congress. They should 
expect that when the United States sends our brave men and women into 
combat, we provide them with the resources to protect themselves and to 
accomplish their mission, both military and humanitarian, and we do it 
expeditiously.

In this context, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral 
Mike Mullen, the Nation's top military officer, has warned all of us 
and our congressional leaders, and I quote: ''The Pentagon is 
dangerously close to running out of money. We need the supplemental 
appropriations very badly before the Memorial Day recess. We stop 
paying soldiers on the 15th of June, and we have precious little 
flexibility with respect to that.''

Should it be a surprise to the majority leadership? Absolutely not. 
Our troops have been waiting nearly 450 days since the President 
delivered his request for emergency funds to Congress. Our soldiers 
need this funding to continue their efforts in the global war on 
terror.

Yet this is a process that amounts to deliberate brinksmanship. You 
have waited until the 11th hour before bringing the bill to the floor 
in an effort to force the President and the Congress to endorse and 
accept billions of dollars of nonwar, nonemergency spending.

Having said that, Mr. Speaker, on substance, on the funding for Iraq 
and Afghanistan, this is a solid package and I commend the gentleman, 
Chairman Murtha, and the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Young) for their 
work. However, my colleagues, once again we are being asked to endorse 
a policy that amounts to retreat from our battles with terrorists in 
Iraq.

But this bill in the end should not be about binding or nonbinding 
deadlines for withdraw or how to conduct this war. The critical mass of 
this bill is about supporting our troops and making sure that all of 
these volunteers get what they need.