---
---

# NINETY-SECOND COMMEMORATION OF THE ARMENIAN GENOCIDE
## `fd298a168c214ce367b274236bc441f8`
`Mr. PALLONE — 23 April 2007`

---


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleagues on the 
Republican side for agreeing to let me reclaim the time. I will try to 
limit my time to less than 5 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening to commemorate the 92nd anniversary 
of the Armenian genocide. As the first genocide of the 20th century, it 
is morally imperative that we remember this atrocity and collectively 
demand reaffirmation of this crime against humanity.

On April 24, 1915, 92 years ago tomorrow, that day marked the 
beginning of the systematic and deliberate campaign of genocide 
perpetrated by the Ottoman Empire. Over the following 8 years, 1/1/2/ 
million Armenians were tortured and murdered, and more than one-half 
million were forced from their homeland into exile. These facts are 
indisputable, but to this day the U.S. Congress has never properly 
recognized the Armenian genocide.

The historical record, Mr. Speaker, on the Armenian genocide is 
unambiguous and well-documented with overwhelming evidence. The U.S. 
Ambassador to the Ottoman Empire at the time, Henry Morgenthau, 
protested the slaughter of the Armenians to the Ottoman leaders. In a 
cable to the U.S. State Department on July 16, 1915, Ambassador 
Morgenthau stated that, ''A campaign of race extermination is in 
progress.''

Mr. Speaker, if America is going to live up to the standards we set 
for ourselves, and continue to lead the world in affirming human rights 
everywhere, we need to finally stand up and recognize the tragic events 
that began in 1915 for what they were: the systematic elimination of a 
people.

Despite pleas by Members of Congress and the Armenian-American 
community and recognition by much of the international community, 
President Bush continues to avoid any clear references to the Armenian 
genocide, while consistently opposing legislation marking this crime 
against humanity. Instead, he has chosen to succumb to shameless 
threats by the Government of Turkey. I strongly believe that Turkey's 
policy of denying the Armenian genocide gives warrant to those who 
perpetrate genocide everywhere, because denial is the last stage of 
genocide. If the cycle is to end, there must be accountability. And 
just as we would not permit denying the Holocaust, we cannot accept 
Turkey's falsification of the facts of 1915.

Mr. Speaker, I must say that in the last few months the Turkish 
Government has made every effort to try to prevent the Armenian 
genocide resolution from coming to the floor of the House of 
Representatives. But I just want to show why denial is such a bad thing 
in a sense. Last week, I came to the floor and I pointed out that when 
the U.N. wanted to do a project or an exhibit at the United Nations 
headquarters talking about the genocide in Rwanda, because the Turkish 
Government protested the inclusion of the Armenian genocide, the 
Rwandan genocide never took place. There again, if you deny one 
genocide, you end up denying or impacting the other.

And the fact of the matter is that when some of my colleagues say to 
me, ''Well, why do you need to bring up something that occurred 92 
years ago,'' I say, ''Because by denying this, the Turkish Government 
continues to perpetrate genocide or oppression of its minorities.

Just a few weeks ago, there was something in the New York Times about 
how the Turkish Government continues to persecute the Kurdish minority. 
Many Kurds have been killed, driven from their homelands in the same 
way Armenians were. The Kurds happen to be a Muslim people, not a 
Christian people. That doesn't matter. The Turkish Government 
consistently oppresses minorities. They refuse also to open their 
borders with Armenia. They have actually had a blockade of Armenia in 
placed for several years, which contributes to the economic instability 
of Armenia.

So this is something that must be done. It must be accomplished, that 
we recognize this genocide if it continues in various ways in Turkey 
today.

The second thing I would point out is that the Turkish Government has 
been basically hiring lobbyists for millions of dollars to go around 
and tell Members of Congress that if they pass the genocide resolution, 
there will be dire consequences: Turkey will not allow supplies to go 
to U.S. troops in Iraq.



They have actually taken to having Members of Congress called and 
told that their own soldiers in Iraq might be threatened if they pass 
the genocide resolution.

Well, again, this is the type of bullying that we, as a free 
government, should not allow because bullying is essentially the same 
thing that takes place when genocide takes place. Why should we give in 
to the threats of a country that tries to bully our country over such 
an important issue as the genocide?

Now, let me just mention, Mr. Speaker, to wrap up, that tomorrow 
evening at 6:30 the Armenian Caucus, which I cochair, will host an 
Armenian genocide commemoration event with the Armenian embassy, and I 
hope that many of the Members will attend this.
