# None
## `fd2a4d2796a6648a08d0143289b079a4`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, today we are here to address the issue of 
the Iraq war, and many are saying: Well, why should we address the Iraq 
war again? Because, obviously, it is still going on; there is still no 
direction in terms of political progress; the Shiites, the Sunnis, and 
the Kurds still have their age-old enmities; the goals of the Iraqi 
Government set by this Government for them have not been met; but most 
of all, I think we are here to debate this issue, at least in my 
judgment, because we are at a turning point in terms of the debate in 
Iraq. That turning point--the case against this war--has been building 
for a long time. As we debate this bill on Iraq, we are at a turning 
point in the argument against the war. We have always been aware of the 
cost in life, both American and Iraqi, and we have known how severe 
that cost is. Despite the good works of our troops, we are continually 
troubled by the tragic loss of life. The American people are baffled by 
the lack of political progress and, most of all, the American people 
are beginning to comprehend the eye-popping figures of what this war is 
costing our budget and our economy. It is becoming clear to all 
Americans--Republicans, Democrats, and Independents--that by continuing 
to spend huge amounts on Iraq, we are prevented from spending on 
desired goals and needs here at home.

So the turning point is this: The lack of progress, particularly on 
the political front, continues; the tragic loss of life continues; but 
the cost of the war and the inability to use those funds to help us 
here at home, the cost of the war and the inability to use those funds 
to properly go after the most dangerous nexus of terror, which is a 
thousand miles to the east--Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iran--is now 
becoming a clinching argument that we must quickly and soon change the 
course, the direction, of this war in Iraq.

I went to Iraq over New Year's. I spent time with our soldiers. They 
are wonderful. They are awe-inspiring. The troops are awe-inspiring, 
from the private I met from Queens, just out of high school, who had 
enlisted 8 months previously and was in Iraq 3 weeks, to the majors and 
captains who had served 10 years in the Army or the Marines and had 
made the military their life's work--they see a greater good than just 
themselves, and it is wonderful--all the way to the generals. I spent 
time with General Petraeus at a New Year's Eve dinner. I spent time 
with General Odierno. They are fine, intelligent, good people.

When I went to Iraq, I assured our soldiers, from the private to the 
generals, that one good thing that would come out of this war is the 
esteem that we hold for both the military and our soldiers would be 
greater when the war finished than when it started--a far different cry 
than the Vietnam War, which is one of the most disgraceful times in 
America, when our soldiers were too often vilified for simply serving 
our country.

But after I left Iraq, I came to this conclusion, Mr. President, and 
that is that even if we were to follow General Petraeus's game plan--
which, of course, involves not just military success in security but 
winning over the hearts and minds of the people--it would take a 
minimum of 5 years and have about a 50 percent chance of success of 
bringing stability--not democracy but at least stability--to large 
portions of Iraq. That is not the military's fault, and that is not 
America's fault. That is because of the age-old enmities within Iraq--
the Sunnis, the Shiites, and the Kurds, and then within the groups 
themselves. It would be very hard to create permanent stability without 
a permanent and large structure of troops.

Now, I ask you, stability in Iraq--a worthy goal, but is it on your 
top-five list for America? Is it on any American's top-five list? A 
few, maybe, not the vast majority. We have many other higher goals that 
cost the same dollars and need the same attention and energy that is 
now diverted to Iraq. Our education system is declining, our health 
care system doesn't cover people, and we are paying $3.30 for gas 
because we don't have an energy policy. And even if your goals are just 
foreign policy, shouldn't we be taking the time and effort that is all 
now focused on Iraq, as well as the dollars, and spending more focus on 
the dangerous triangle composed of Pakistan, Iran, and Afghanistan? Of 
course. We must ask ourselves: Is it worth spending trillions of 
dollars needed elsewhere on such an uncertain and unpredictable 
outcome?

So the debate is changing. The costs of Iraq, the simple costs alone, 
are weighing too heavily on the American people, the American 
Government, and on our national purpose. While admirable as a goal, it 
is hardly the most important goal we have in this changing and 
dangerous and exciting world in which we live. The cost of the war has 
become the $800 billion gorilla in the room. The backbreaking cost of 
this war to the American families, the Federal budget, and the entire 
economy is becoming one of the first things, after loss of life, people 
think about.

A report issued by the Joint Economic Committee, which I chair, 
estimated that the total costs of the war will double what the 
administration has spent directly on the war alone--$1.3 trillion 
through 2008. And that is a conservative estimate. According to budget 
figures on Iraq spending for 2000, the Bush administration wants to 
spend $430 million a day on Iraq. For 1 day of the war in Iraq, we 
could enroll an additional 58,000 children in Head Start per year, we 
could put an additional 88,900 police officers on our streets per year, 
we could hire another 10,000 Border Patrol agents per year, we could 
make college more affordable for 163,000 students per year, and we 
could help nearly 260,000 American families keep their homes per year. 
In the fiscal year of 2008, we put $159 billion into Iraq. That doubles 
our entire domestic transportation spending to fix roads and bridges, 
and it dwarfs all the funds we provide to the National Institutes of 
Health to discover cures for diseases such as cancer and diabetes. Iraq


spending is seven times our spending to help young Americans get a 
college education. The costs are mountainous, and in this changing 
world, where we have to fight to keep America No. 1, we cannot afford 
such costs, as I said, despite the great efforts our soldiers are 
putting into Iraq.


Now, tomorrow morning, Mr. President, we in the Joint Economic 
Committee--and I see my colleague from Virginia here, and he is on that 
committee with me--we are going to hold our first congressional hearing 
of the year, and it will be appropriately devoted to the skyrocketing 
cost of the Iraq war. That will be the Joint Economic Committee. We are 
going to have Nobel Prize-winning economist Dr. Joseph Stiglitz talk 
for a time about his new book, about to be published, and the title 
speaks for itself: ''The $3 Trillion War.'' Dr. Stiglitz got 
information out of the Government and out of the Pentagon, after much 
long work, and has new estimates that make our estimates on the Joint 
Economic Committee seem small--$3 trillion. That is the title of his 
book. He is going to talk about the cost of that war. We are going to 
have national security experts, such as Bob Hormats and Ron Bier, 
discuss their views on how the out-of-control costs of the war have 
impacted our economy, our reputation abroad, our military strength and 
readiness, and the future of our children. Our JEC report estimated 
$1.3 trillion, but Dr. Stiglitz--and he has talked to the experts from 
the Pentagon--has even more massive numbers.

So we desperately need a change of course in Iraq. That is what this 
amendment calls for. It calls for limiting what our troops will do to 
force protection, of course, to training the Iraqi army, to fighting 
al-Qaida and fighting terrorism, but not to be in the middle of a civil 
war where we continually police the age-old enmities of the various 
factions in Iraq.

History will look upon this Iraq war in two ways: It will admire the 
bravery of our soldiers, from the privates to the generals, and it will 
be amazed at the mistakes made by this administration in starting and 
continuing this war, far too expensive in loss of life and in dollars.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.