---
---

# RECOGNIZING MILITARY WORKING DOG PROGRAM
## `fd3181ade6d8a4b7d72e193978e3a6e3`
`Mr. LANCE — 2 March 2010`

---


Mr. LANCE. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from North Carolina 
and the gentleman from Georgia.

Madam Speaker, I rise today as the proud sponsor of House Resolution 
812, legislation to honor and recognize the significant contributions 
made by military working dogs to the United States military and to our 
Nation.

Dogs have been used by people to help protect themselves and their 
property since ancient times. Trained dogs have been used by most of 
the world's military forces since the first military units were 
organized. From these ancient beginnings, the U.S. Armed Forces adopted 
the Military Working Dog Program, called ''the K-9 Corps,'' shortly 
after the attack on Pearl Harbor, when dog owners across the Nation 
donated their noble pets to assist soldiers and sailors in the World 
War II effort.

Since that time, military working dog training has been continually 
refined to produce a highly sophisticated and versatile extension of 
the warrior's own senses. Military working dogs are trained in 
explosives detection, narcotics detection, sentry, patrol, tracking, 
and other specific areas. Even the most complex machines remain unable 
to duplicate the operational effectiveness of properly trained working 
dogs.

The branches of the United States Armed Forces as well as several 
other governmental agencies incorporate military working dogs into 
their operations, including, as has been mentioned, the Secret Service, 
the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Transportation Security 
Administration.

The United States military utilized more than 10,000 dogs in World 
War II. More than 1,500 military working dogs were employed during the 
Korean War, and 4,500 in the Vietnam War. Since September 11, military 
working dogs have served not only in Iraq and Afghanistan but also in 
detection work as part of homeland security and defense efforts. 
Approximately 2,000 military working dogs currently serve at nearly 170 
U.S. military bases worldwide, including bases in 40 U.S. States and 
three U.S. territories. Over the past six decades, these dogs have 
helped prevent injuries and have saved the lives of thousands of 
Americans.

This resolution to honor these brave canines was inspired by a 
military working dog that was adopted by a family in Fleming, New 
Jersey, in my congressional district. Military Working Dog Ben C020 was 
retired from the Air Force last July after nearly 11 years of loyal 
service in the military. Ben, trained as a narcotics and patrol dog, 
served with a security unit at Bolling Air Force Base. As the premium 
narcotics dog in the unit, he was selected to deploy to Texas to assist 
the United States Customs and Border Protection agency, where he 
detected and prevented 300 pounds of marijuana from being smuggled into 
the U.S. in one month. Ben also worked in law enforcement, foot 
patrols, and resource security to keep employees, residents, and 
visitors at the Air Force base safe. In September, the Air Force 
awarded Ben with a medal of commendation to recognize the major 
achievements that he has achieved throughout his career.

House Resolution 812 also recognizes community organizations for 
their efforts to assist in the adoption process of retired military 
working dogs. J.T. Gabriel, a constituent of mine and Ben's new owner, 
is the chief executive officer and founder of K-9 Soldiers, a nonprofit 
organization that supports military K-9 troops worldwide. In addition 
to providing support for active military working dog units, K-9 
Soldiers and many other community groups work closely with the adoption 
program at Lackland Air Force Base in Texas to help secure a home for 
military working dogs once they retire. Thanks to their efforts, 
hundreds of retired military working dogs have been able to find good 
homes and continue to lead happy and healthy lives after their years of 
loyal service to the Nation.

I thank the chairman and the ranking member for allowing us to bring 
this resolution to the floor, and the Members who are cosponsors of 
House Resolution 812. I encourage all of my colleagues to support this 
resolution and honor the thousands of active and retired military 
working dogs that have helped save lives and protected the members of 
our Armed Forces in harm's way.