---
---

# ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
## `fd3bea1249b27a05807832ea4f0746de`
`Mr. HODES — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. I thank all my colleagues, Mr. Sestak and Mr. Altmire from 
Pennsylvania, Mr. Klein from Florida. It has been a truly interesting 
discussion tonight focusing on strategy, the complexity of a world that 
has changed but which Democrats are facing with boldness and leadership 
to help take our country and the world in a new direction, to reverse 
the damage that's been done by the administration and reassert our role 
as a leader in this world on our principles and our values, not merely 
our military might but only using our military might in service of the 
good judgment our leaders exercise in the pursuit of peace.

As we leave for our July 4 recess, I want to leave us with this 
thought. The Army says that it will leave no soldier behind. And as we 
discussed here tonight, the Democrats in Congress have committed to 
leaving no veteran behind. We have voted and passed the biggest 
increase in Veterans' Administration spending for health care and 
needed services in this country's history.

The chart I have here shows in dramatic form what has happened over 
the past few years. From 2003 to 2008, the VA is treating many, many 
more Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans. We've been in a conflict where 
our soldiers have been deployed, redeployed, redeployed and redeployed 
again, two times, three times, four times. Whereas compared to World 
War II, when their active duty tours were 180 days, they're now seeing 
15 months, wreaking havoc on the soldiers and their families at the 
same time. As General Odom put it today, they're experiencing 
cataclysmic events every day, new kinds of injuries, polytrauma, 
traumatic brain injuries, PTSD have created great complexity in our VA 
system.

So as we go out on July 4, I would ask us all to think about what 
supporting our troops really means. In my view, supporting our troops 
means employing and following a course that is a real, smart, strategic 
effort to protect American security by redeploying our troops from the 
middle of a civil war in which they don't belong, number one. That is 
truly supporting our troops, because they are owed the policy that the 
civilian leaders should be following. That is what our troops are owed 
and our veterans are owed when they come home, the best that we can 
give them. No more broken promises from the White House. No more broken 
promises from the Republicans who have cut the budgets time and time 
again, who have cut health care in the VA, who have imposed fee 
increases on our veterans. No more. We will leave no veteran behind. 
The Democrats promise that. We have followed through on our commitment.

And I am so proud to stand with you all as Members of the 110th 
Congress to help lead this country in a new direction and be the kind 
of world leader that the American people expect and deserve.

Thank you very much and good night.
