# DEVELOPMENT, RELIEF, AND EDUCATION FOR ALIEN MINORS ACT OF 2010
## `fd40bf6c4b5c3f864d80abcaf239ab08`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 8 December 2010`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas for 
yielding.

I rise in opposition to this bill, to this bill that has a nice name. 
But it is really not a dream; it is a nightmare. It is a nightmare to 
the rule of law.

As the gentlewoman from California said, we do write the laws in this 
country, and we have written the laws that limit people from coming 
into the United States illegally. And it seems to be forgotten that 
under even this legislation that is proposed, someone who is one day 
short of their 16th birthday could sneak across the border in the 
United States, claim they were here for 5 years, they could go on a Web 
site, how about www.diplomacompany.com, get themselves a GED, and 
qualify for the DREAM Act if they were just accepted into a tech 
school, to, say, go to barber school or plumber school. That is kind of 
the minimum.

And it isn't they are doing this on their 16th birthday. They can do 
so the day before their 30th birthday. They can lie about their age. 
The comments about there being biometric information and a background 
check, we can't do background checks on people that don't have a legal 
existence in their own country. About half of the people that are born 
south of the border don't have a birth certificate, unless they were 
born in a hospital. It is about 50-50, which means no legal existence. 
There is not a way to do a background check.

The score on this, the cost, is a lot higher than the proponents 
would like to admit. They argue it is a marginal savings. It also says 
in the same CBO score that in the second decade it is estimated at $5 
billion, and likely $5 billion for each decade after that. That is 
probably not a big deal in the context of this spending, Mr. Speaker, 
but it is a big deal when you look at the Center for Immigration 
Studies' score, a cost to local government at $6.2 billion. That is 
every year; at least the first couple of years they have estimated 
this.

It triples the number of green cards, it provides safe harbor for 
those who file for a number of things, and ties up our courts and our 
litigation system that we have. There is an exemption for even fraud 
against immigration laws in the United States.

So what we really have is this scenario, this scenario, Mr. Speaker. 
This is the moral and ethical conundrum that cannot be reconciled by 
anybody in this Chamber, or anybody in this country, for that matter.

When you have the recipients of the DREAM Act, should this become 
law, sitting in a classroom, a community college, a university, being 
the beneficiaries of a de facto scholarship, and in California it is 
free, no tuition for a California resident, and next to them at a desk 
will be a husband or a wife who is aggrieved, having lost their spouse 
fighting for our liberty in Iraq or Afghanistan, paying out-of-state 
tuition, in California $22,021 a year, paying out-of-state tuition for 
defending our rule of law, while someone who is being rewarded for 
breaking it is getting free tuition.

That is just California. In Iowa, it is a little different. It is 
about a three-to-one break, in-state versus out-of-state. That is what 
this necessarily brings.

If you support this nightmare DREAM Act, you are actually supporting 
an ''affirmative action amnesty act'' that rewards people for breaking 
the law and punishes those who defend America.