# PRIVATE FIRST CLASS DAVID H. SHARRETT II POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `fd418f73c39cb07d5a05db92cdb9f43b`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, as a member of the House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, I join my colleagues in consideration of H.R. 5483, 
which renames a post office building in Oakton, Virginia, after one of 
our country's fallen soldiers: Private First Class David H. Sharrett 
II.

H.R. 5483 was introduced on February 25, 2008, by Congressman Tom 
Davis, our committee's ranking member, and has the support of the 
entire Virginia delegation, which is only fitting as the measure honors 
one of the State's native sons and heroes. H.R. 5483 was considered by 
the Oversight and Government Reform Committee on March 13, 2008, where 
it was passed without objection by voice vote.

A longtime resident of the Northern Virginia community of Fairfax, 
Private First Class David H. Sharrett II was tragically killed on 
Wednesday, January 16, 2008, along with two other soldiers from his 
command, when they were attacked by grenade and small-arms fire during 
a combat operation in Balad, Iraq.

Known throughout the area as a star defensive end for the Oakton High 
School football team, Private Sharrett elected to enlist in the U.S. 
military in the summer of 2006 and was assigned to the 101st Airborne 
Division in Fort Campbell, Kentucky. According to Private Sharrett's 
father, David's tour of duty in Iraq was scheduled to end in October of 
2009 and he planned to return to Northern Virginia to earn a degree in 
education and possibly become a history teacher, which I must say is 
another noble and honorable profession. Although Private Sharrett's 
dream must now go unaccomplished, let the record show that his valiant 
service to our country and the world will undoubtedly live on for 
generations to come.

So, Mr. Speaker, I ask that we join with Representative Tom Davis, 
our colleague from Virginia, in acknowledging the life and sacrifices 
of Private First Class David H. Sharrett II and pass H.R. 5483.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.