# TOPICS OF THE DAY
## `fd4915f117235a160e2f03a788288a75`
`Mr. GARAMENDI — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. GARAMENDI. Thank you so very, very much for making that clear. 
You go through all of these pieces of legislation, and the Democratic 
Caucus is there. On the other side of the aisle, on the Republican 
side, they're standing with Big Oil, big banks consistently, and the 
big health insurance industry.

Now, let me make this point perhaps more clear, and that is, the 
Republican minority leader not only said that we ought to take on this 
issue of Wall Street reform as though it was some sort of a nuclear 
weapon killing an ant. He also talked about health care, and he said 
that if the Republicans take control of the Congress after this next 
election, if they win enough seats after this next election, they are 
going to do everything they possibly can to stop the Patients' Bill of 
Rights and other health reforms.

They are out to repeal the reform that Americans desperately need so 
they can get affordable health insurance. They want to kill those 
reforms. They want to turn back women's opportunity to get an insurance 
policy and say, We don't care whether you have a preexisting condition; 
you are at the mercy of the health insurance company. If they deny you, 
that's your problem. You shouldn't have gotten sick in the first place. 
If you are a 23-year-old, you will lose the ability to be on your 
parents' benefits.

That's what the Republican Caucus wants to do is to repeal all of the 
efforts of consumers and to build into this system a method of keeping 
us healthy.

So, okay, whose side are you on? There is a string here. There is a 
logic to all of this. One more thing--and I couldn't believe this when 
I heard this, and it just came, I guess, in the last day or two. Now, 
Social Security is an insurance policy. You and I pay into Social 
Security. As Members of Congress, a certain percentage of our pay goes 
for Social Security, and so it is with every other person in America 
who is working legally. They are paying into Social Security.

Mr. Boehner, the Republican leader, has said that what he wants to do 
is to increase the retirement age from 65 to 70 and use the savings to 
finance the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. And I'm going, Excuse me, wait a 
minute. That's my insurance policy. That's my mother's insurance 
policy. That is the insurance policy of the working men and women out 
there, and you want to take it away to finance the Afghan war. I don't 
think so.

But that's once more sign, a signpost--we're following a path here--a 
signpost of where the Republicans stand. Big business, ending Social 
Security; and in fact, their budget, put out by the Republican Study 
Committee, their budget called for the end of Medicare, the 
privatization of Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security.



That's their policy. If that's what the public wants, then those 
folks are going to win this election and they're going to come and 
they're going to control this House and they're going to try to do it. 
I think this would be a serious problem for every American. Medicare, 
Social Security privatized? I don't think so.