# CELEBRATING THE 85TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE 105TH AIRLIFT SQUADRON OF THE
## `fd5548a9cb344e24e582b07c49c2c080`
`Mr. COOPER — 1 February 2007`

---


Mr. COOPER. Madam Speaker, today I rise in honor of the 85th 
anniversary of the 105th squadron of the 118th Airlift Wing in our 
Tennessee Air National Guard. The roots of this storied squadron reach 
as far back as World War I, and their brave service continues today in 
military operations around the world.

The unit received federal recognition in 1921 and was assigned to the 
U.S. Army's 30th ''Old Hickory'' Division. The unit adopted the name 
dubbing themselves the ''Old Hickory Squadron'' and their insignia 
still bears the image of Old Hickory himself, Andrew Jackson, riding on 
horseback.

At the onset of World War II, the unit mobilized for this global 
conflict. Members of the 105th Squadron made history around the world 
on observation missions, antisubmarine patrols, reconnaissance, and 
bombardment. The men of the 105th flew over 100 missions in the Pacific 
Campaign. They attacked Axis targets around the world in planes like 
the B-10 Bomber, the Vega Ventura B-34, and the B-25 Mitchel Bomber.

In 1961, the wing converted to the airlift mission that it 
accomplishes with distinction to this day. Beginning with the C-97G 
Stratofreighter, moving to the C-124C Globemaster II and finally to the 
C-130 Hercules, the 118th Military Airlift Wing carried out their 
critical mission from Panama to Iraq. They provided support for the 
Berlin Airlift and Cuban Missile crises, national and state civil 
disturbances, the Vietnam Conflict, Red Flag, Brave Shield, Volant Oak 
and Coronet Oak, Desert Shield, and Desert Storm. In 1990, the Wing 
mobilized 462 personnel during 21 deployments in Operations Desert 
Storm and Desert Shield, logging a record 7,239 flying hours.

After September 11, 2001, over one third of the 118th air wing was 
activated for a year or more helping patrol our skies in Operation 
Noble Eagle before deploying in support of Operation Enduring Freedom 
and Operation Iraqi Freedom. In 2003, the 118th deployed ten C-130's 
and over 320 personnel to the Middle East in direct support of combat 
operations in Iraq. The members of the 118th refused to let living in 
tents in the desert prevent them from establishing a bare base in 
support of the largest contingent of C-130's ever based in a combat 
environment, with over 46 C-130's located at a single base.

Madam Speaker, the world is safer because of the men and women of the 
118th. The nation owes them our thanks on their 85th anniversary. These 
brave Americans are members of our community both in and out of 
uniform. Nashville is a better place for having the 118th Air Wing, and 
I am proud to represent them.
