# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `fd57bcfc6e0c2f65b5c46ac62a55c05d`
`Mrs. BOXER — 6 November 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, today I rise to pay tribute to 35 young 
Americans who have been killed in Iraq since July 23, 2007. This brings 
to 812 the number of soldiers who were either from California or based 
in California that have been killed while serving our country in Iraq. 
This represents 21 percent of all U.S. deaths in Iraq.

Hospitalman Daniel S. Noble, 21, died July 24, as a result of enemy 
action while conducting security operations in the Dilaya Province of 
Iraq. Hospitalman Noble was permanently assigned to 1st Marine 
Division, Fleet Marine Force Pacific, Camp Pendleton, CA. He was from 
Whittier, CA.

SSG Joshua P. Mattero, 29, died on July 24, in Baqubah, Iraq, when an 
improvised explosive device detonated near his patrol. Staff Sergeant 
Mattero was assigned to the 725th Ordnance Company, 63rd Ordnance 
Battalion, 52nd Ordnance Group, Fort Drum, NY. He was from San Diego, 
CA.

CPL Matthew R. Zindars, 21, died July 24, while conducting combat 
operations in the Diyala province of Iraq. Corporal Zandars was 
assigned to 2nd Battalion, 11th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

SPC Jaime Rodriguez, Jr., 19, died July 26, in Saqlawiyah, Iraq of 
wounds sustained when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. Specialist Rodriguez was assigned to the 5th Squadron, 7th 
Cavalry Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, Fort 
Stewart, GA. He was from Oxnard, CA.

CPL Sean A. Stokes, 24, died July 30, from wounds suffered while 
conducting combat operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. Corporal 
Stokes was assigned to 3rd Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA. He was from 
Auburn, CA.

SPC Daniel F. Reyes, 24, died July 31, in Tunis, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered from enemy indirect fire. Specialist Reyes was assigned to the 
2nd Battalion, 377th Parachute Field Artillery Regiment, 4th Brigade 
Combat Team, Airborne, 25th Infantry Division, Fort Richardson, AK. He 
was from San Diego, CA.

LCpl Cristian Vasquez, 20, died August 2, from wounds suffered while 
conducting combat operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. Lance 
Corporal Vasquez was assigned to 1st Light Armored Reconnaissance 
Battalion, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp 
Pendleton, CA. He was from Coalinga, CA.

SGT Jon E. Bonnell Jr., 22, died August 7, from wounds suffered while 
conducting combat operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. Sergeant 
Bonnell was assigned to 1st Battalion, 11th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

SGT Michael E. Tayaotao, 27, died August 9, from wounds suffered 
while conducting combat operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. 
Sergeant Tayaotao was assigned to 7th Engineer Support Battalion, 1st 
Marine Logistics Group, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, 
CA. He was from Sunnyvale, CA.

SSG Sean P. Fisher, 29, died August 14, in Al Taqqadum, Iraq, of 
injuries suffered when his helicopter crashed. Staff Sergeant Fisher 
was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 52nd Aviation Regiment, Task Force 
49, Fort Wainwright, AK. He was from Santee, CA.

SGT Matthew L. Tallman, 30, died August 22, in Multaka, Iraq, of 
injuries suffered when his helicopter crashed. Sergeant Tallman was 
assigned to the 4th Squadron, 6th U.S. Air Cavalry Regiment, Fort 
Lewis, WA. He was from Groveland, CA.

SSG Jason L. Paton, 25, died August 22, in Multaka, Iraq, of injuries 
suffered when his helicopter crashed. Staff Sergeant Paton was assigned 
to the 2nd Battalion, 35th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry Brigade 
Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division, Schofield Barracks, HI. He was 
from Poway, CA.

CPL Nathan C. Hubbard, 21, died August 22, in Multaka, Iraq, of 
injuries suffered when his helicopter crashed. Corporal Hubbard was 
assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 35th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry 
Brigade Combat Team,


25th Infantry Division, Schofield Barracks, HI. He was from Clovis, CA.

LCpl Matthew S. Medlicott, 21, died August 25, from wounds suffered 
while conducting combat operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. 
Lance Corporal Medlicott was assigned to 1st Battalion, 1st Marine 
Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp 
Pendleton, CA.

LCpl Rogelio A. Ramirez, 21, died August 26, while conducting combat 
operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. Lance Corporal Ramirez was 
assigned to 1st Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA. He was from Pasadena, 
CA.

CPL John C. Tanner, 21, died August 29, while conducting combat 
operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. Corporal Tanner was 
assigned to 3rd Assault Amphibian Battalion 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

SGT Michael J. Yarbrough, 24, died September 6, while conducting 
combat operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. Sergeant Yarbrough 
was assigned to 3rd Assault Amphibian Battalion, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

SSG John C. Stock, 26, died September 6, while conducting combat 
operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. Staff Sergeant Stock was 
assigned to 3rd Assault Amphibian Battalion, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

CPL Bryan J. Scripsick, 22, died September 6, while conducting combat 
operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. Corporal Scripsick was 
assigned to 3rd Assault Amphibian Battalion, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

CPL Christopher L. Poole Jr., 22, died September 6, while conducting 
combat operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. Corporal Poole was 
assigned to 3rd Assault Amphibian Battalion, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

SPC Marisol Heredia, 19, died on September 7, at Brooke Army Medical 
Center, Fort Sam Houston, TX, of injuries sustained on July 18, in 
Baghdad, Iraq, from a non-combat related incident. Specialist Heredia 
was assigned to the 15th Brigade Support Battalion, 1st Cavalry 
Division, Fort Hood, TX. She was from El Monte, CA.

CAPT Drew N. Jensen, 27, died September 7, in Seattle of wounds 
suffered when insurgents attacked his unit using small arms fire during 
combat operations May 7 in Ba'qubah, Iraq. Captain Jensen was assigned 
to the 5th Battalion, 20th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry 
Division (Stryker Brigade Combat Team), Fort Lewis, WA. He was from 
Clackamas, CA.

LCpl Lance M. Clark, 21, died September 7, from a non-hostile 
incident in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. He was assigned to 1st 
Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

CPL Carlos E. Gilorozco, 23, died September 10, while conducting 
combat operations in the Al Anbar province of Iraq. Corporal Gilorozco 
was assigned to 2nd Battalion, 9th Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine 
Division, II Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Lejeune, NC. He was from 
San Jose, CA.

SPC Nicholas P. Olson, 22, died September 18, in Muqdadiyah, Iraq, of 
wounds sustained when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
unit during combat operations. Specialist Olson was assigned to the 2nd 
Battalion, 23rd Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, 
Stryker Brigade Combat Team, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from Novato, CA.


CPL Anthony K. Bento, 23, died September 24, in Bayji, Iraq, of 
injuries sustained when his dismounted patrol encountered small arms 
fire. Corporal Bento was assigned to A Company, 1st Battalion, 505th 
Parachute Infantry Regiment, 82nd Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, NC. He 
was from San Diego, CA.

SGT Robert T. Ayres III, 23, died on September 29, in Baghdad, Iraq, 
of injuries sustained when he encountered small arms fire while on 
dismounted patrol. Sergeant Ayres was assigned to A Company, 3rd 
Squadron, 2nd Stryker Cavalry Regiment, 1st Armored Division, Vilseck, 
Germany. He was from Los Angeles, CA.

SPC Avealalo Milo, 23, died October 4, in Baghdad, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when insurgents attacked his unit using small arms fire. 
Specialist Milo was assigned to the 2nd Squadron, 2nd Stryker Cavalry 
Regiment, 2nd Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 1st Armored Division, 
Vilseck, Germany. He was from Hayward, CA.

LCpl Jeremy W. Burris, 22, died October 8, while conducting combat 
operations in Al Anbar province, Iraq. Lance Corporal Burris was 
assigned to 1st Battalion, 4th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

CPL Gilberto A. Meza, 21, died October 6, in Baghdad, Iraq, of wounds 
sustained when an improvised explosive device detonated near his unit. 
Corporal Meza was assigned to the 3rd Squadron, 2nd Stryker Cavalry 
Regiment, Vilseck, Germany. He was from Oxnard, CA.

SPC Frank L. Cady III, 20, died on October 10, in Baghdad, Iraq, when 
his vehicle overturned. Specialist Cady was assigned to B Company, 4th 
Brigade Special Troops Battalion, 1st Infantry Division, Fort Riley, 
KS. He was from Sacramento, CA.

SPC Vincent A. Madero, 22, died October 17, in Balad, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. Specialist Madero was assigned to 2nd Battalion, 82nd Field 
Artillery Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division, Fort 
Hood, TX. He was from Port Hueneme, CA.

CPL Erik T. Garoutte, 22, died October 19, in Baghdad, Iraq. Corporal 
Garoutte was assigned to 1st Fleet Anti-terrorism Security Team 
Company, Marine Corps Security Force Battalion, II Marine Expeditionary 
Force, Norfolk, VA. He was from Santee, CA.

SPC Wayne M. Geiger, 23, died October 18, in Baghdad, Iraq, of wounds 
sustained when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle. Specialist Geiger was assigned to 3rd Squadron, 2nd Stryker 
Cavalry Regiment, Vilseck, Germany. He was from Lone Pine, CA.

SSG David A. Wieger, 28, died November 1, near Balad Air Base, Iraq, 
of wounds suffered from an improvised explosive device. Staff Sergeant 
Weiger was a special agent with the Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations and was assigned to Detachment 303, Travis Air Force 
Base, CA.

I would also like to pay tribute to the five soldiers from California 
who have died while serving our country in Operation Enduring Freedom 
since July 23.

SGT Travon T. Johnson, 29, died on July 23, in the Sarobi District of 
Afghanistan of injuries sustained when an improvised explosive device 
detonated near his mounted patrol. Sergeant Johnson was assigned to the 
1st Battalion, 503rd Infantry Regiment, 173rd Airborne Brigade, Caserma 
Ederle, Italy. He was from Palmdale, CA.

MSG Patrick D. Magnani, 38, died September 4, near Bagram, 
Afghanistan, in a non-combat related incident. Master Sergeant Magnani 
was assigned to the 31st Medical Support Squadron, Aviano Air Base, 
Italy. He was from Martinez, CA.

CPL Travis M. Woods, 21, died September 9, from wounds suffered while 
conducting combat operations in the Northern Helmand province of 
Afghanistan. Corporal Woods was assigned to 3rd Battalion, 1st Marine 
Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp 
Pendleton, CA. He was from Redding, CA.

PFC Mathew D. Taylor, 21, died September 26, in San Antonio of wounds 
sustained when an improvised explosive device detonated near his 
vehicle July 23, in the Sarobi District of Afghanistan. Private First 
Class Taylor was assigned to the 1st Battalion, Airborne, 503rd 
Infantry Regiment, 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team, Vicenza, Italy. 
He was from Cameron Park, CA.

SSG Joseph F. Curreri, 27, died October 27, in Siet, Lake Jolo 
Island, Philippines, from injuries sustained in a non-combat related 
incident. Staff Sergeant Curreri was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 1st 
Special Forces Group, Airborne, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from Los 
Angeles, CA.
