---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE OF TECHNICAL SERGEANT RYAN BALMER OF MISHAWAKA,  INDIANA
## `fd577db97211037c9315718e6e3694ae`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 14 June 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the sacrifice of 
Technical Sergeant Ryan Balmer, native son of Mishawaka, Indiana, who 
died on June 5, 2007 while proudly serving his nation in Kirkuk, Iraq. 
Ryan risked everything in service to America, and for that we are 
eternally grateful.

Ryan was stationed at Hill Air Force base in Utah where he lived with 
his wife, Danielle and their two children Anthony and Gabby. His 
family, including his mother, Patricia Balmer, was anticipating his 
scheduled arrival home five days later when they were informed of his 
death. Danielle had made posters, buttons and banners to welcome Ryan 
home and had planned to line the road to their home with American 
flags. She also made a shirt for Gabby that read, ''My daddy's finally 
home.''

However, when Danielle saw the uniformed Air Force officers, 
including Ryan's saddened commanding officer, arrive at her work, she 
learned he was not coming home. Danielle said,''He died doing what he 
loved.''

Shortly after graduation from Mishawaka High School, Ryan joined the 
Air Force where he became part of the Office of Special Investigations. 
His mission was to help identify, investigate and neutralize criminal, 
terrorist and espionage threats, one of the most dangerous assignments 
in today's Air Force. At the time of his death, he was serving as a 
liaison between Iraqi police and U.S. military officials in Kirkuk.

Ryan was killed when the vehicle in which he was riding, the first of 
a three vehicle convoy, was hit by an improvised explosive device. His 
commander, General Dana Simmons, called him a ''warrior'' who made the 
ultimate sacrifice in his brave performance of duty.

It is my somber duty to honor and remember Ryan and a life cut 
tragically short. I am saddened by the loss to his family, our 
community and our country. We were all blessed by his presence and 
diminished by his passing.
