# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `fd61a39fb58fbb8efa8c9940388485b7`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 21 January 2009`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the 
nomination of Hillary Rodham Clinton to serve as Secretary of State.

Hillary Clinton is a tireless and fearless public servant.

She is a woman of strength and compassion with a powerful voice.

And I look very much forward to confirming her as our next Secretary 
of State.

I have known Hillary for 16 years--since the time when she was First 
Lady.

I was delighted to see Hillary Clinton sworn into our small but ever-
growing cadre of female Senators in January 2001, and I have greatly 
admired her work here in the Senate.

Senator Clinton has rolled up her sleeves and worked forcefully to 
represent the people of New York during the past 8 years.

She worked side-by-side with her Empire State colleagues to shepherd 
New Yorkers through the challenges of recovering from the tragedies of 
the attacks of September 11.

She has been an active and diligent member of the Senate Armed Forces 
Committee, doing her homework and asking the tough questions.

In 2004, she was asked by the Department of Defense to join the 
Transformation Advisory Group to the Joint Forces Command--the only 
Senator to serve in that capacity.

I know that Senator Hillary Clinton will leave behind a large void 
when she leaves the Halls of this Chamber.

But her next role--as Secretary of State--presents tremendous 
challenges and opportunities.

The new Obama administration will usher in a new era of American 
foreign policy, and help rebuild our image around the world.

Hillary Clinton understands the value, and very great need for, a 
foreign policy that is guided by smart, robust diplomacy--rather than 
belligerent threats.

She has already visited more than 80 countries, and has formed 
important relationships with a number of world leaders.

I am confident that she will ably continue to represent the values 
and interests of our great country in the capitals of the world as 
Secretary of State.



There is no doubt that the foreign policy challenges we face as a 
nation and global community are great: the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and the great need to transition our forces; a resurgent 
Iran; the long-simmering Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which boiled 
over in recent weeks with tragic consequences; threats of nuclear 
proliferation and terrorism; ongoing instability in Southeast Asia; the 
need to confront climate change; the terrible atrocities in Darfur and 
the Congo; millions of global citizens who face a grim reality of 
hunger, thirst, poverty, and sickness; and the need to improve the 
plight of women around the world.

As Hillary remarked during a press conference when her nomination was 
formally announced on December 1, 2008:




 America cannot solve these crises without the world, and 


 the world cannot solve them without America.


I am confident that Hillary Clinton will rise to the occasion--and 
work hand-in-hand with President Obama and his national security team 
to help address these tremendous challenges.