---
---

# None
## `fd748d5bc529a787b2fc5fc7cb26c356`
`Mr. ABERCROMBIE â€” 9 October 2007`

---


Mr. ABERCROMBIE. Mr. Speaker, I find it very unfortunate that my good 
friend from Virginia has taken a position that the bill in any way 
encourages the whims of prosecutors. As Mr. Scott has pointed out, the 
standard is very high and applies to any contract, whether it's in the 
United States or overseas. There is nothing applied to the contracts 
overseas that is not applied to a contract here in the United States 
when it comes to the question of fraud or overcharging or deliberate 
deception with regard to the contract. That standard has to be met in 
any court and has to come before any judge meeting such a standard. 
There is no differentiation whatsoever.

The reason the bill is here, and the reason we're bringing the 
legislation, is the courts have ruled that there is, at best, an 
ambiguous situation, if not an outright gap between the capacity for 
prosecution of such a crime, should the standard for the crime be 
sustained by a prosecutorial investigation, and what is possible in 
Iraq. It can't be prosecuted in Iraq, and the courts found that it 
wasn't. We did not have legislation sufficiently clear in the United 
States in order to prosecute it. Thus, far from arbitrary or capricious 
prosecution, we have the opportunity for arbitrary defrauding of the 
United States taxpayer with no consequences. That's why the legislation 
is here.