# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `fd773b702a0258719ccf9d9cb7bbf72e`
`Mr. SPECTER — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, as stated a moment ago, I have sought 
recognition to speak about the nomination of a Mississippi appellate 
court judge, Leslie H. Southwick, to be a Federal judge on the Fifth 
Circuit Court of Appeals. I have asked for this time because Judge 
Southwick has been before the Judiciary Committee on several occasions 
and, because there is not much known about his record, there have been 
certain objections raised. I have talked to our colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle, and when they hear about his record, they are 
surprised that he is not moving through expeditiously. I thought it 
would be important to take a few moments to acquaint Senators with his 
record and, beyond that, to acquaint the public with the pending 
nomination.

This Chamber has seen some very contentious moments, going back over 
the past two decades, of partisanship on judicial nominations and 
extensive filibusters in 2004. Judges of both sides have been held up, 
with Republican Presidential nominees held up by a Democratic-
controlled Senate, and the same thing with President Clinton's nominees 
being held up by a Republican Senate. I moved and supported President 
Clinton's nominees when they were qualified, and broke ranks. It seems 
to me that we ought to be looking at the merits of these nominees and 
not engaging in partisanship to block nominations when courts such as 
the Fifth Circuit are urgently in need of additional judicial manpower.

Judge Southwick has a very outstanding record, which I will detail 
briefly. I also want to deal with the objections which have been raised 
against him, which I do not think are substantial--not disqualifiers by 
any sense. Judge Southwick is 57 years old--a perfect age to come to 
the court of appeals, considering his background. He is a cum laude 
graduate of Rice University in 1972 and has a law degree from the 
University of Texas. He served as a law clerk on the Texas Court of 
Criminal Appeals, and then he was a law clerk to Judge Charles Clark on 
the Fifth Circuit. So he has had experience in a clerk's capacity on 
the court to which he has now been nominated. He practiced law for 12 
years, with a distinguished practice first as an associate and then as 
a partner at a respected Mississippi law firm. He was Deputy Assistant 
Attorney General for the United States Department of Justice for 4 
years between 1989 and 1993.

He is an adjunct professor at the Mississippi School of Law. He has 
been a volunteer for Habitat for Humanity doing community service. He 
was the recipient of the Judicial Excellence Award from the Mississippi 
State Bar and was rated by the American Bar Association as unanimously 
well qualified.

When he was 42 years old, in 1992, he obtained an age waiver in order 
to join the Army Reserve. Then, in 2002, he volunteered, at the age of 
53, to transfer to a line combat unit, and he served on forward-
operating bases near Najaf in Iraq.

Major General Harold Cross characterized Judge Southwick's 
volunteering for duty in Iraq as follows:




 This was a courageous move; as it was widely known at the 


 time that the 155th was nearly certain to mobilize for 


 overseas duties in the near future.


He is a man with an outstanding background and a courageous man who 
stepped forward at an advanced age to volunteer for service in Iraq, 
something that doesn't happen very often. It is a very rare occurrence.

On the Mississippi Court of Appeals, Judge Southwick has participated 
in between 6,000 and 7,000 cases--it is hard to be precise because many 
of them are unreported. He has written 985 opinions himself in the 
course of some 12 years.

The objections to Judge Southwick have focused on two cases. I wish 
to discuss very briefly these cases because I think, on their face, 
they show there is not any reason this man should not be confirmed. I 
discussed these cases with him. I met with him at length and talked 
with him about his judicial career and his service in Iraq. He is a 
mild-mannered professional who is a confident man--not flamboyant and 
not overstated. We talked about legal issues. He is a solid lawyer and 
has been a solid judge.

But the objections to him have focused on two cases. In one, a case 
captioned Richmond v. Mississippi Department of Human Services, the 
case involved a State social worker, Ms. Bonnie Richmond, who used, 
admittedly, an outrageous racial slur. The administrative board 
reviewing the matter to determine whether she should be dismissed or 
censured made the determination that she should not be dismissed based 
on the evidence before it: the racial slur was an isolated comment made 
outside the target's presence, it was followed by an apology which was 
accepted, and it did not result in significant disruption of the 
workplace. Under these circumstances, the review board concluded the 
dismissal of a public employee was not warranted.

Under Mississippi law, the board's ruling could be reversed only if 
it was arbitrary and capricious. That is the general standard for 
reversing an administrative decision. The Mississippi Court of Appeals 
applied that standard, which is deferential to the fact finder, to 
determine if there was sufficient evidence to support it, and the court 
decided that there was sufficient evidence.

This is a case where Judge Southwick did not write the opinion, only 
concurred in the opinion. The Mississippi Supreme Court, while finding 
that the administrative board needed to give more detailed reasons for 
its conclusions, nonetheless concluded that dismissal was not 
warranted--agreeing with the appellate court on which Judge Southwick 
sat.

In the hearing before the Judiciary Committee, Judge Southwick was 
asked about the case, and he said the slur was ''always offensive,'' 
''inherently and highly derogatory,'' and said there was ''no worse 
word.''

In the face of his overwhelmingly good record, how can a man be 
denied confirmation on the basis of that situation?

There was another case about which Judge Southwick has been 
questioned, S.B. v. L.W., a custody case where the chancellor awarded 
the father custody of a child instead of the child's bisexual mother.

There were numerous factors leading to the award for the father, all 
of which were considered and weighed in favor of the father--steady 
job, higher income, owner of a large residence, and roots in the 
community.

The objection came because the majority and concurring opinions--
again, not Judge Southwick's opinions, but ones that he joined--made 
reference to ''homosexual lifestyle.'' But, that is the same phrase 
used in Mississippi Supreme Court precedent. It is also a phrase which 
was used by the majority in the Lawrence case, Lawrence v. Texas, and 
has been used by many people, including President Clinton. So, there is 
hardly a basis for objecting to that kind of a reference, it seems to 
me.



My record on civil rights and on rights for people regardless of 
lifestyle is well accepted. I can't see how this man can be pilloried 
on this basis. Moreover, he wrote an opinion, in a case called Hughey 
v. State of Mississippi, where he affirmed the trial court's decision 
to disallowed cross-examination as to the victim's sexual preference, 
saying he recognized the victim was homosexual, but that was not 
relevant to the defense and that such a line of inquiry would produce 
undue prejudice.

If there is a case where lifestyle is not involved, the trial court 
would not allow a party to try to smear someone with a reference to his 
or her being a homosexual. Judge Southwick affirmed it, as anybody 
would. But it shows his own sensitivity on this matter.

There are a couple of comments by some individuals who are very 
supportive--one a woman named La'Verne Edney, a distinguished African-
American lawyer who is a partner in a prominent Jackson, Mississippi 
firm. She had some very complimentary things to say about Judge 
Southwick. He hired her as a clerk at a time when few others would hire 
a young African-American woman. Similarly, a practicing attorney named 
Patrick Beasley, also African American, wrote about Judge Southwick's 
sensitivity on racial matters. Because of limited time, I ask unanimous 
consent their statements be printed in the Record without my going into 
them.