# IRAQ
## `fd7a7f29a3422a052453d361e9f6fca7`
`Mr. CORNYN — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, 3 months ago, the President of the United 
States asked Congress to pass an emergency war spending bill that would 
provide our brave men and women in uniform with the funds and the 
flexibility they need to succeed in what has been called the central 
front on the war against al-Qaida in Iraq. Instead, this body helped 
pass a bill that substitutes the opinions of politicians for the 
judgment of our military commanders. The bill Congress passed was, in 
my view, unacceptable, and late. Eighty-five days after the President 
had requested the funds on an emergency basis, Speaker Pelosi finally 
forwarded the bill to the President yesterday. It was no surprise that 
the President vetoed the bill within hours because he had said he 
would, and so the outcome was predictable.

The President, in his address to the Nation last night, made it very 
clear that it remains his desire to work with Congress to resolve this 
matter as quickly and expeditiously as possible. Today, he is holding a 
bipartisan meeting with congressional leaders at the White House for 
that purpose.

We have known for weeks that this legislation was flawed and that we 
would find ourselves in this place--a bill that included a surrender 
date, when we tell our enemies we would simply give up, and one larded 
with porkbarrel spending in order to secure the votes of recalcitrant 
Members who were unwilling to vote for this flawed bill on its merits.

The President outlined these shortcomings last night.

First, he said the bill would mandate an artificial deadline for 
troops to begin withdrawing from Iraq. The withdrawal could start as 
early as July 1 and would have to start no later than October 1 
regardless of the situation on the ground. The language in the bill 
defies sound military logic and, I would say, common sense itself. It 
makes no sense to tell the enemy when you plan to start withdrawing. 
Setting a deadline for withdrawal is setting a date for failure, and it 
would be irresponsible. As the President made very clear last night, 
setting this deadline for withdrawal would also demoralize the Iraqi 
people and encourage the killers across the broader Middle East, such 
as al-Qaida, and send a signal that America will not keep its 
commitments.

Second, the bill would impose impossible conditions on our commanders 
in combat. After forcing most of our troops to withdraw, the bill would 
dictate the terms on which the remaining commanders and troops could 
engage the enemy. American commanders in the middle of a combat zone 
would have to take fighting directions from politicians thousands of 
miles away in Washington, DC.

Third, as I mentioned, the bill is loaded with billions of dollars of 
nonemergency porkbarrel spending that has nothing to do with fighting 
the war on terror and which demeans the importance of this particular 
legislation, designed as it is to support our troops who are literally 
in harm's way.

Democratic leaders know that many of us in Congress disagree with 
their approach and their desire to use this bill as an opportunity to 
make a political statement about their opposition to the war. Yet we 
know there are not enough votes to override a veto. It is time to put 
politics behind us and support our troops with the funds they need. 
Some have confused the need to debate, which I agree with, with cause 
for delay, which I disagree with. There should be no cause for delay in 
getting these emergency funds to our troops, and the debate will indeed 
continue.

In February, we began sending the first of the reinforcements that 
General Petraeus, the new commander in Iraq, requested. Not all of 
these reinforcements have arrived; roughly half of them have. As 
General Petraeus said just last week, it will be at least the end of 
the summer before we can assess the impact of this new operation, the 
Baghdad security plan, or surge. We ought to give General Petraeus's 
plan a chance to work.

In the months since our military has been implementing this plan, we 
have actually begun to see some important results. General Petraeus 
noted that one of the most important indicators of progress is the 
level of sectarian violence in Baghdad. He reported that, since 
January, the number of sectarian murders has dropped substantially. 
Spectacular suicide attacks that have caused great suffering in Iraq 
continue because these attacks are largely the work of al-Qaida, the 
Sunni extremists--the enemy that everyone agrees we should be fighting, 
or at least some say we should be fighting. At the same time, they 
would impose arbitrary deadlines, imposing a surrender date on our 
troops.



The objective of these al-Qaida attacks is to reignite the sectarian 
violence in Baghdad and breaking support for the war here at home. That 
was the goal of al-Zarqawi, whom we were fortunate to be able to take 
out of the fight, and that is the fight now of the remaining al-Qaida 
extremists in Iraq. General Petraeus explained it this way:




 Iraq is, in fact, the central front of al-Qaida's global 


 campaign.


It just boggles my mind, Mr. President, for some of us to stand here 
on the floor and say we ought to withdraw our troops from Iraq when, in 
fact, al-Qaida--the enemy that hit innocent Americans and killed 3,000 
of them on September 11, 2001--considers Iraq to be the central front 
in their campaign against the West. Al-Qaida's role makes the conflict 
in Iraq far more complex than a simple fight between Iraqis. Many also 
belong to the same terrorist network, as I said, that attacked us on 
September 11, 2001. Were we to leave prematurely, were we to leave a 
power vacuum in Iraq, al-Qaida would no doubt, as they did in 
Afghanistan earlier, use that power vacuum as an opportunity to 
regroup, to plan, to train, to recruit, and then to export additional 
terrorist attacks against the United States here on this continent.

We need to give our troops all of the equipment and training and 
protection they need to prevail. Without a war funding bill, the 
military has to take money from some other account--notably, the Air 
Force or Navy--just in order to make sure the Army has the resources 
they need, so the troops can have the equipment they need, so they can 
rotate back on a timely basis and come home to the loving arms of their 
families, to repair existing equipment. And worst of all, in one sense, 
failing to send this money on a timely basis to the military hurts the 
military families who are waiting behind, anxious, as we all 
understand, for the welfare and safety of their loved ones. Our troops 
and their families deserve better.

So I hope that after the last 86 days, which have been characterized 
by political theater and gamesmanship, where some have been more 
focused on the 2008 election and trying to find ways to gain political 
advantage, I hope Republicans and Democrats, the legislative branch and 
executive branch, can come together and do what we should have done 
months ago--get the funds to the troops as soon as possible, without 
the surrender deadline, without tying the hands of our military 
commanders and making their opportunity for success impossible, and 
without the porkbarrel spending that demeans the noble sacrifice of 
these brave men and women.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and yield back our remaining time.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.