---
---

# HIGHER EDUCATION TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
## `fd8e44cf5761628e8037a74a85786c8e`
`Mr. HINOJOSA — 23 June 2009`

---


Mr. HINOJOSA. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1777, a bill to make 
technical corrections to H.R. 4137, which is the Higher Education Act.

Mr. Speaker, the House originally passed this legislation on March 
30, 2009. This is a revised version from the Senate. The Senate made 
additional conforming and technical changes, including a scholarship 
program for students whose parent or guardian was a member of the Armed 
Forces of the United States and died as a result of performing military 
service in Iraq or Afghanistan after September 11, 2001, clarifying the 
''experimental site'' authority at the Department of Education. Let me 
explain some of these changes.

Currently, borrowers may rehabilitate their defaulted Federal student 
loans by making nine on-time payments. Once they meet this threshold, 
the guaranty agency may sell the loan to a lender, which results in the 
default being removed from the borrowers' credit reports.

Mr. Speaker, because of the current credit crunch, guaranty agencies 
have been unable to find lenders for these loans. The bill amends the 
loan to allow those loans qualified for rehabilitation to be assigned 
to the Department of Education for this purpose.

The bill makes three changes to the exemption of veterans' assistance 
in the calculation of the Federal financial aid. The first is to 
clarify that assistance under the Montgomery GI Bill is included in 
exempted veterans' benefits, and the second is to move the date of the 
exemption of veterans' benefits from the calculation of the estimated 
financial assistance from July 1, 2010, to July 1, 2009.

The third change is to provide scholarships in the amount of the 
maximum Pell Grant award to students whose parent or guardian was a 
member of the Armed Forces of the United States and died as a result of 
performing military service in Iraq or Afghanistan after September 11, 
2001.

The bill ensures the continuation of the Department of Education's 
''experimental site'' program on existing campuses for another year and 
defines a successful program as one that reduces administrative cost 
and increases student services, without additional cost to the 
government.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank our committee 
chairman, Representative George Miller from California, and our ranking 
member, John Kline, along with our ranking


member on the subcommittee, Representative Brett Guthrie of Kentucky, 
for expediting this legislation and helping us make these needed 
corrections in a bipartisan manner.

I urge all my colleagues to vote ''yes'' on H.R. 1777.

I reserve the balance of my time.