# HONORING FORMER FIRE CHIEF ED HANZEL
## `fd9020c4cc101a1277f3f103147cb931`
`Ms. SUTTON — 6 February 2008`

---


Ms. SUTTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today with a deep sense of 
appreciation to pay tribute to former fire chief, Ed Hanzel, who passed 
away on December 31, 2007 while serving as a combat firefighter in 
Iraq.

Ed, who devoted over 32 years of his life to his community as a 
firefighter, embarked on two separate tours in Iraq following his 
retirement in 2002. Retirement did not suit Ed, who felt he could make 
a positive contribution in Iraq while continuing to provide for his 
family.

And although Denise, his wife of 36 years, worried for his safety, Ed 
was determined to protect our brave soldiers by utilizing his 
professional firefighting skills on military bases as a combat 
firefighter. One morning, at the onset of his second tour, Ed informed 
a coworker he wasn't feeling well and went to rest. Later that day, Ed 
Hanzel passed away.

Ed was a strong man. He had beaten cancer a few years ago. His death 
in Iraq surprised his family and friends who knew him for his easygoing 
nature, his sense of humor, and his ability to light up a room with his 
bright eyes and genuine smile. After his passing, countless 
firefighters, emergency medical personnel and other safety forces from 
11 neighboring departments joined together to honor Ed's memory. With 
fire truck ladders extended to form an arch, an American flag was flown 
at the peak, symbolizing Ed's devotion to his country.

A medical helicopter flew low over the crowd, and a fire truck 
adorned with a black wreath sounded a traditional last call, concluding 
a ceremony to celebrate a former fire chief, a humble fire chief, who 
often appeared embarrassed when called ''Chief.''

The respect and admiration Ed earned as a firefighter, a paramedic 
and a SWAT medic could not have been more visible as his peers joined 
together around an empty pair of boots and a firefighter's helmet to 
honor their fallen colleague.

We will always remember Ed for his ever-present smile, his commitment 
to his community, his sense of humor, and his dedication to his family. 
On behalf of the people of Ohio's 13th District, I want to express my 
deepest sympathies to his wife, Denise, and son, Brian. We have lost a 
great man, and they have lost a great husband and father who gave all 
in service to others and our country.

We grieve Ed's passing, but we celebrate his life and service and we 
take solace in knowing we are better people for having known him.
