# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `fda7de9361e4649e76d526a3a9fc0ee8`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 7 June 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, today I am introducing the Veterans 
Advocacy Act of 2007. This bill would create a grant program for 
organizations providing pro bono legal representation to servicemembers 
and veterans to ensure that they receive the health care and benefits 
to which they are entitled.

The men and women of the Armed Services have served this Nation 
honorably and deserve the best health care and benefits available. 
However, as recent revelations about the extent of bureaucratic delays 
at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center demonstrate, these brave 
individuals face a series of hurdles as they navigate the health care 
and disability compensation processes. Many of them are forced to turn 
to their representatives in Congress for help cutting through the red 
tape. I have heard from many military personnel and veterans who are 
frustrated with the system or unaware of Federal health care and other 
benefits for which they may be eligible. I regret that the system too 
often makes the burden of proving that a condition is related to 
military service nearly insurmountable. Our men and women in uniform 
deserve the benefit of the doubt, and should not have to fight the 
Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
benefits that they have earned through their service to our Nation.

Numerous reports have detailed the range of administrative and legal 
hurdles injured servicemembers will face when they return home. Service 
members returning with unprecedented rates of post traumatic stress 
disorder, PTSD, and traumatic brain injury, TBI, will struggle to get 
the medical records they need to file benefits claims. Those with 
severe TBI that does not show up on brain scans will have an even 
harder time establishing that they need compensation. Those with 
profound TBI may be prematurely relegated to care in a nursing home 
when, with proper assistance, they may be fully capable of living 
independent lives in the community. The Government Accountability 
Office reported


that over 75 percent of servicemembers who screen positive for PTSD 
will not be referred to a mental health professional. Members of the 
Guard and Reserves face additional hurdles to gain access to military 
doctors. This is unacceptable.

I commend my colleagues for their support of increased funding for 
the military and veterans' health care systems in the 2007 emergency 
supplemental. However, I am concerned that unless veterans have 
independent advocates to ensure that they are receiving top notch care 
and that they are aware of the benefits to which they are entitled, 
these additional funds may be mismanaged. Last November, the Government 
Accountability Office reported that for the last two years the 
Department of Veterans Affairs has not expended all the funds allocated 
for mental health initiatives. My bill would ensure that service 
members and veterans who have trouble accessing the care to which they 
are entitled will have an advocate outside the chain of command who can 
negotiate with the Departments to ensure proper care.

In addition to helping ensure that service members and veterans 
receive top notch care, my bill would help service members and veterans 
overcome legal barriers to obtaining benefits. During the Veterans' 
Affairs Committee's hearing on benefits legislation, Meredith Beck of 
the Wounded Warrior Project summarized the problem as follows: ''In 
many of the cases we have seen, the creation of new benefits wasn't 
needed to aid the service member, rather, the wounded warrior just 
needed to have the existing benefits systems better explained and 
untangled in order to understand what was available to them.''

Fortunately, service members and veterans benefit from the services 
of a nationwide system of veterans and military service organizations. 
However, the system is simply overwhelmed. It will be further inundated 
when the over 170,000 servicemembers deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan 
return home. I want to be clear that the purpose of this legislation is 
to supplement the existing network of advocates to ease the caseload of 
overburdened service officers and allow them to spend more time per 
case helping veterans and service members.

Congress has a responsibility to simplify the system and ensure that 
it gives service members and veterans the benefit of the doubt when 
they seek assistance for service-connected disabilities. It is my hope 
that the majority of veterans will not need legal representation. But 
the reality is that many veterans face unnecessary delays and appeals 
of legitimate compensation claims that could be avoided if there were 
enough advocates to ensure that every veteran's case is carefully 
developed from the beginning. Several judges of the Court of Appeals 
for Veterans Claims have described the importance of ensuring that 
veterans have legal representation throughout the claim process. Judge 
Holdaway summarized the need as follows:




 If you get lawyers involved at the beginning, you can focus 


 in on what is this case about. I think you would get better 


 records, you would narrow the issue, there would be screening 


 . . . I think if we had lawyers involved at the beginning of 


 these cases, it would be the single most fundamental change 


 for the better that this system could have.


While the need for legal representation in complicated cases is 
clear, I do not believe that veterans should have to pay for legal 
representation just to get the benefits they earned through their 
service. I have been troubled when I have heard that service members 
are seeking expensive legal assistance to help them overcome daunting 
administrative and legal hurdles. Fortunately, there are legal service 
organizations and attorneys who are willing to provide assistance to 
these service members and veterans free of charge. The purpose of this 
bill is to help these organizations get the training they need to help 
veterans and service members.

The bill would establish a pilot program of one-year grants to 
organizations that have experience serving veterans or persons with 
disabilities. The Veterans Administration will be charged with 
appointing a committee to disburse the grants. The committee shall be 
composed of veterans and military service officers, veterans and 
disability legal service attorneys, and representatives of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs employees and the Department of Defense. 
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs will be required to submit a report 
to Congress on the number of individuals served and the kinds of 
assistance they received as a result of the pilot program.

In order to avoid adding to our country's sizable debt, the $1 
million cost of this program is taken from the $3 billion appropriated 
to the defense health program by the 2008 supplemental spending bill. 
The grant program will help ensure that these funds are spent wisely.

Veterans and military service organizations that currently employ 
attorneys will be eligible to receive the grants either to provide 
legal services at no charge or to provide training to other pro bono 
attorneys. The bill will also help servicemembers and veterans access 
the services of the federally funded and mandated protection and 
advocacy system for persons with disabilities. This system has lawyers 
in every state who are trained to help people with disabilities obtain 
the benefits, health care and services they need to live independent 
lives. These attorneys are uniquely qualified to, for example, ensure 
that veterans with PTSD are properly diagnosed and treated and to 
prevent those with TBI from being placed in nursing homes when they are 
capable of living in the community. Many veterans have been seeking out 
their assistance but the system is currently overwhelmed. I have 
included a description of the assistance that the protection and 
advocacy systems have been providing veterans. This bill would help 
foster collaboration between lawyers with expertise in veterans' law 
and those with expertise in disability law.

I commend my colleagues who have offered bills to increase funding 
for the care of service members and veterans, to expand necessary 
benefits and to ensure that our military and veterans health care 
systems offer the best care available. In order to ensure that service 
members and veterans are able to capitalize on these important reforms, 
they need independent advocates who can help them cut through the red 
tape. My bill would help expand the cadre of experienced advocates who 
will do just that. The bill has been endorsed by the National 
Organization of Veterans Advocates, the Vietnam Veterans of America and 
the Protection and Advocacy System's National Disability Rights 
Network.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill and supporting 
material be printed in the Record.