---
---

# THIRTY-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `fdac94d327b46719255bb8380788ecad`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Well, I think the American people will be very glad 
when they see this budget. They are going to be very glad over the past 
couple of weeks and really over the past 100 days of all of the 
accomplishments led by Speaker Pelosi and Steny Hoyer and Jim Clyburn 
and Rahm Emanuel and John Larson, and really the amazing leadership we 
are getting from our leadership in our caucus and the real teamwork on 
behalf of our freshmen Members and the different aspects of our caucus.

I have never been prouder to be a Democrat than in the last couple of 
weeks on this floor and to pass that resolution last week that is going 
to get us out of Iraq responsibly, invest in our veterans, make sure 
they get the kind of health care they need, the first 100 hours, where 
we began to bring some fiscal discipline to the House, cut student loan 
interest rates in half, repairing student loans, invested in 
alternative energies, invested in the stem cell research and some great 
advances, creating new sectors, raising the minimum wage, all of this 
was done in the first 100 hours.

When you add to that the supplemental and the $1.7 billion and the 
billion dollars for vets and the additional $1.7 billion above the 
President's request for health care for our soldiers, and you add this 
budget of $50 billion that is going to go to poor kids to make sure 
that they get health care so they can go out and get up on their feet 
and go to school healthy, ready to learn and move forward and get a 
good job and pay taxes and advance their families forward, break the 
cycle of poverty, these are the kind of investments that we are making, 
increasing the Pell Grant to $4,600. Key investments.

So I am proud of what has been going on here, and it has been a 
pleasure to rekindle this kind of debate that we have, and I really 
appreciate your friendship.

With that, do you have any closing comments? I am going to wrap it up 
here. 30somethingdems@mail.house.gov. If anybody wants to e-mail or see 
any of the charts we have had, you can go to www.speaker.gov/
30something.