---
---

# None
## `fdb5d6fbc0544aec57ecff36f49e5680`
`Mr. OBEY — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 3 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I think that we need to understand what this war has 
really done. This war has gutted our influence in the Middle East, it's 
gutted our influence in the world, it's divided our own country, and 
it's united our enemies. Outside of that, it's been a terrific idea.

Our troops won the war clearly, cleanly, and quickly. But now they 
are stuck in a civil war. And as the gentleman from Pennsylvania points 
out, the only solution to that civil war is a political and diplomatic 
compromise, and there are no American soldiers who can get that done.

Although it certainly isn't intended to do it, this motion in fact 
carries out the comments made by Secretary of Defense Gates, who 
testified before our committee, before Mr. Murtha's subcommittee, that 
the war was militarily unwinnable, that it could only be won on the 
political and diplomatic front. In fact, The Washington Post carried 
this paragraph this morning. It said: ''Secretary Robert Gates told 
reporters traveling with him in the Middle East that congressional 
demands for withdrawal had been constructive. 'The strong feelings 
expressed in Congress about the timetable probably had a positive 
impact, in terms of communicating to the Iraqis that this is not an 
open ended commitment,' Gates said.''

When the bill was before us the first time, our Republican friends 
did not bother to offer a recommital motion. Why? Because they were 
divided about how to proceed. They could reach no agreement. They had 
no policy. Now they are offering a motion which they say they are going 
to vote against. Is that the best they can do? We have heard talk about 
a surrender date.

The only surrender that is involved here today is the surrender of 
the obligation of this Congress to oversee Presidential and executive 
branch policy. The only surrender is the total surrender of our 
obligation and our authority to a White House that has demonstrated 
from day one that it had not a clue of what it was getting into, and it 
today has not a clue about how to get out.

We have to provide better leadership than that, and that is what this 
bill before us tries to do. I would urge support for the gentleman's 
motion.