---
---

# LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
## `fdb6265c0660ec21aca82df18eb2a6b0`
`Mr. HOYER — 12 June 2008`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

He observes that I said we hope to have it on the floor. I want to 
reiterate that I hoped each one of those weeks that we would have it on 
the floor, and I hope that we will have it on the floor next week.

I would say to my friend that I hope we have a bill on the floor next 
week, pass it through the House and pass it through the Senate and that 
the President will sign that bill. Obviously, one of the reasons that 
we have not gotten the bill on the floor as quickly as I had hoped is 
that there have been very, very substantial discussions between the 
House and the Senate, between the House and the White House, and the 
Senate and the White House about what their thoughts are with respect 
to various aspects of the supplemental bill and what they would or 
would not consider a signable bill.

So I think there have been extensive discussions on that. I am 
hopeful that


when we finally pass something to the President he will sign it and we 
will have that bill done. As the gentleman indicated, we are aware of 
the fact that it is timely that we pass this bill certainly within the 
next 2 weeks. And when I say pass it, not just pass it but have it 
signed by the President so we have a law in effect that gives the 
President and the Department of Defense the funds they need to continue 
the deployment that currently exists. That does not adopt the policy of 
the appropriateness of that, but it does recognize the reality of the 
fact that we have men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan.