---
---

# IRAQ AND THE ECONOMY
## `fdb9ea1d4a3885edbc62751d3b2958c3`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. I thank the gentleman from Iowa for explaining, 
not only the aggregate cost, but certainly what's happening in Iowa. I 
know one of our colleagues in our freshman class, Mr. Space from Ohio, 
he has explained to us the impact in his district in rural parts of 
Ohio and how important it is for him to help the local people get 
beyond this.

I'm going to explain it a slightly different way, because, again, I 
think it's the tangible side of this thing that people need to 
understand. The cost per day that we are currently spending, and this 
is independent information; there's no question that this is accurate. 
It comes from the Library of Congress Research Service.

The cost per day that the war is costing us, if you will, $339 
million per day. That is a staggering amount of money.

Now, again, I'm not here to say that we don't have to fight wars, or 
don't have to do the necessary things to protect Americans. But when we 
come to the conclusion, as most Americans have, that the strategy of 
keeping the men and women in place the way they are is not advancing 
our national security, we should question whether that money is being 
well-spent.

But I've introduced something today in the House, which I'm going to 
begin to talk about more actively, and I'm sure the gentlemen here 
tonight will chime in on this as well, and that is, whether people 
support the war or not, and I know there's differences of opinion on 
this, I think every American understands that at $339 million per day, 
it's about time that the Iraqi government step up and pay its fair 
share.

And whether we're talking about the cost of fuel for our operations 
over there, whether we're talking about the cost of rebuilding, whether 
we're talking about the training of their military, after five full 
years and $600 billion, now coming out to $339 million more every 
single day, for all the reasons that Mr. Braley has already mentioned 
about the savings and what could be applied in the United States, or 
maybe dealing with reducing the deficit or dealing with taxes, any 
number of different strategies to make life better for Americans, it's 
about time the Iraqi people step up, and if they want us there, the 
government, pay their fair share.

And I'll just throw out a few facts as to why I believe this is so 
important. First of all, our President, Mr. Rumsfeld and others, when 
the war was presented to us in the first place, they told us that this 
was a war and a rebuilding effort that was going to be paid for by 
Iraqi oil money.

Iraq sits on the second largest quantity, second largest quantity of 
oil reserves in the world. They've got tens of billions of dollars in 
bank accounts, as we speak, that are not being applied toward the 
rebuilding effort. That is unacceptable.

As an American, as a taxpayer, I hope every American understands this 
and joins us. This is not a Democrat issue. This is not a Republican 
issue. This is an American taxpayer issue that we need to all band 
together and say, you know, whether or not you're for the war or not, 
absolutely, every American should say, enough is enough. We've paid our 
fair share. We've put our men and women on the line, and it's time for 
the Iraqis to pay for the cost of this continuing effort to the extent 
it continues into the future.

So I've offered House Resolution 1111, which was filed today, and I'm 
looking forward to discussing this with many of the Members. I've 
already spoken to a number of Members, and they're very interested. 
It's being offered in a bipartisan way in the Senate, and I think this 
has the opportunity of finding some common ground in changing the 
dynamics of who's paying for this, the American people or the Iraqi 
government, who wants us, for whatever reason, to continue this effort 
in this way.

And I would suggest to you, and rightfully so, that 1 day of the war 
could provide for 48,000 homeless vets to have a roof over their head, 
men and women who served in Vietnam and other wars.

2,000 new Border Patrol guards. And Mr. Hall just told us, and Mr. 
Braley, about how they were down on the border and saw what's going on. 
We have border patrol needs. And just again, just 1 day, 2000 more 
Border Patrol guards for a year.

We talked about health care. We can go on and on and on. But the 
bottom line is, it's time for a change. It's time for a change with the 
policy, it's time to re-look at this whole effort. But certainly, at a 
minimum, it's time for the Iraqi government to pay for the cost of this 
operation.

Mr. Hall, I know that you've got some thoughts on this as well, so 
please join us in this conversation.