---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `fdb90da33ad265b0634fb3585fb4ccbe`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I rise to express my deep disappointment 
that the Congress is taking up the conference report on the Defense 
bill without the hate crimes provision. I commend Chairman Levin for 
his strong leadership in our efforts to have it included as part of 
this measure. Despite his efforts, and the strong support of Majority 
Leader Harry Reid, it is an extraordinary missed opportunity that we 
are not able to send the hate crimes bill to the President before the 
end of the year.

The inclusion of the hate crimes provision in the Defense bill was 
appropriate. Our military stands for America's ideals and fights for 
America's ideals. At a time when our ideals are under attack by 
terrorists in other lands, it is more important than ever to 
demonstrate that we practice what we preach, and that we are doing all 
we can to root out the bigotry and prejudice in our own country that 
leads to similar violence here at home.

In Iraq and Afghanistan, our soldiers are fighting for freedom and 
liberty. They are on the front line fighting against evil and hate. We 
are united in our effort to root out the cells of hatred around the 
world. We should not turn a blind eye to acts of hatred and terrorism 
here at home. We owe it to our troops to uphold those same principles 
here at home. We should not shrink now from our role as the beacon of 
liberty to the rest of the world.

If America is to live up to its founding ideals of liberty and 
justice for all, combating hate crimes must be a national priority. The 
hate crimes bill would have advanced those values and goals, and we are 
committed to getting it enacted. It is long past time for this measure 
to become law.

We are now facing a time when the FBI reports that hate crimes are on 
the rise, and there has been a sharp increase in the number of hate 
crimes reported against Hispanics--at the highest levels since the 
reports were first mandated by the Hate Crimes Statistics Act, 
demonstrating the real societal impact of anti-immigrant campaigns.

The Southern Poverty Law Center also reports that hate groups are on 
the rise. Since September of this year, when thousands of Americans 
marched for civil rights in Jena, LA, there have been more than 50 
noose incidents across the country. Just a few weeks ago, the New York 
Times included a chart reflecting the ''Geography of Hate'' across 
America. Over the last 2 years, it shows that nooses have been sighted 
in many different States.

This terrifying symbol of racism and prejudice has even appeared 
recently on schoolyards and college campuses, creating fear in their 
whole communities. Apparently, we have not succeeded in adequately 
teaching the lessons of America's long history of discrimination. 
Education is an important part of prevention, but we also need strong 
national legislation to punish


those who engage in hate-motivated violence and to expand Federal 
resources available to investigate and prevent these vicious crimes.

As my colleagues here in the Senate know, Senator Gordon Smith and I 
have been fighting this battle for a long time. Just a few months ago, 
the hate crimes provision was adopted by the Senate with a vote of 60-
39 as an amendment to the Defense authorization bill. It's not the 
first time that the Senate voted to pass this bill. In 2000 and 2002, a 
majority of Senators voted to pass this legislation.

In 2004, we had 65 votes for the bill and it was adopted as part of 
the Defense authorization bill. But that time, like this time, it was 
stripped out in conference. Twice in the last 2 years, Chairman Conyers 
has succeeded in getting the House to vote to pass this legislation--
but, once again, the House and Senate have not come together to get 
this bill done.

We have been in this battle for nearly a decade, and we will continue 
to press ahead. It is long past time to stand up for the victims of 
these senseless acts of violence--victims like Matthew Shepard, for 
whom this bill is named, and who died a horrible a death in 1998 at the 
hands of two men who singled him out because of his sexual orientation. 
Nine years after Matthew's death--9 years--we still haven't gotten it 
done. How long are we going to wait?

This year, with Matthew Shepard's mother Judy at our side, we were 
filled with hope that finally this would be the year that we would get 
this bill to the President's desk. A broad and growing coalition of 210 
law enforcement, civic, disability, religious and civil rights groups 
support the bill, including the International Association of Chiefs of 
Police, the Anti-Defamation League, the Interfaith Alliance, the 
National Sheriff's Association, the Human Rights Campaign, the National 
District Attorneys Association and the Leadership Conference on Civil 
Rights.

Over 1,400--1,400--clergy from a broad spectrum of religious 
traditions from across the country have come together to support the 
Matthew Shepard Act. These leaders of America's religious communities 
have called on Congress to stand united against one of the worst forms 
of oppression: violence based on personal characteristics and identity. 
Together, we must work together to create a society in which diverse 
people are safe as well as free.

We will continue to fight to protect the rights of our fellow 
citizens, and not let a veto threat stop us from doing the right thing. 
We are not giving up. We will continue to push to get the bill through 
the Congress next year. I remain hopeful that the President will hear 
our call and that he too will finally support this much-needed measure.

Hate crimes are an appalling form of domestic terrorism that cannot 
and must not be tolerated anywhere in our country. We have made 
progress over the years, and our focus now should be to strengthen 
protections for hate crimes so that all Americans will be protected 
under the law. No Americans should feel that they are second class 
citizens because Congress refuses to protect them against hate crimes.

I am looking forward to voting for this conference report. At the 
outset I want to express a view that I know all of the members of the 
Armed Services Committee feel, and that is great respect for our 
chairman, Senator Levin, and Senator Warner, who has been past chairman 
of the Armed Services Committee and has a lifetime of commitment in 
terms of the security of our Nation and to the betterment of our Armed 
Forces. We are grateful for their leadership, and the country should 
be. I am also very grateful for their help and assistance, along with 
my colleague and friend Gordon Smith, for a provision that was included 
in the Defense authorization bill but which has been subsequently 
dropped, and that is the hate crime legislation we had added which had 
been included at other times as well in the Defense authorization bill. 
It was included in the year 2000, in 2002, and now, by a vote of 60 to 
39, was included in this legislation.

This legislation is to make sure our troops are going to be the best 
trained, the best led, and the best equipped. Also, the very serious 
efforts that have been made in terms of the health care that has been 
pointed out by the Senator from Washington and other various provisions 
of enormous importance.

What we are interested in doing is giving the support to our 
frontline troops. We ask ourselves: What are they doing? What is their 
task? Their task is fighting terrorism and fighting evil overseas--
fighting terrorism and fighting evil overseas so that we are going to 
be safe and secure. It does seem to me if they are fighting against 
terrorism and evil overseas and they are fighting for American values 
overseas, they ought to also be fighting for American values here at 
home. The values here at home are to fight the terrorism and evil that 
exist here at home in terms of hate crimes--hate crimes--the types of 
crimes that are devoted and focused on individuals because of who they 
are. The kind of crimes that hurt not just the individuals but 
communities; the kind of crimes that have expanded significantly over 
the period of recent years.

America is a better America by not tolerating hate crimes. America is 
a better America when we are fighting hate crimes in the best way and 
with all of the tools we possibly can. We had that legislation. It was 
included. We had good debate on the floor of the Senate. We had 
bipartisan support for the hate crimes legislation. That same concept 
had been passed as an individual bill in the House of Representatives. 
The same concept was included in instructions from the House of 
Representatives 3 years ago that we should accept it. But this time, 
the House of Representatives refused to address it and we have seen 
that provision withdrawn. I think it was a significant and important 
mistake.

I wish to give to those who are committed to that program, that 
effort to try and deal with the problems of violence in America. We 
have all seen the challenges of violence in these past weeks. As the 
Southern Poverty Law Center reports, it is taking place in schoolyards 
and communities all over our Nation. This is violence caused by hatred, 
by people that are targeting individuals of different color skin, 
different races, different ethnic backgrounds, different sexual 
orientation.

So at another time we will bring this issue back to the floor of the 
Senate. We want to give the assurances of those who have been a part of 
this whole march which has taken place over the period of years since 
1968 with the killing of Dr. King--this has been a continuing march. We 
haven't stopped. We will not yield. We will not give in.

I am grateful to the Senator from Virginia for yielding me this time. 
We will ultimately prevail. I thank the Senator.