---
---

# None
## `fdc48fa7fd2f5460453085cef888d935`
`Mr. BOND — 8 July 2008`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I yield myself 10 minutes in opposition.

When the inspector general audit provisions were first discussed in 
the House and Senate, there was a great concern that these audits would 
be used to delay or deny essential civil liability protections. 
Unfortunately, this amendment shows that these concerns were justified.

When negotiating this compromise legislation with House Majority 
Leader Hoyer, I agreed in good faith to a limited inspector general 
review of the President's terrorist surveillance program even though 
this program has been reviewed up and down on a bipartisan basis by the 
Senate Intelligence Committee and no abuse or wrongdoing had been 
found.

Now, in what I could only assume is a political move to undermine the 
critical civil liability protections in this bill, this amendment 
delays any liability protection until 90 days after the inspector 
general review of the bill is completed. What is supposed to happen 
after that is anything but clear, but I can only assume that will be 
followed by yet another effort to delay liability relief. That is 
extraordinarily and unacceptably unfair to those providers that 
assisted the Government in the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist 
attacks. We owe them our thanks, not our continued partisan 
maneuvering.

Earlier, we heard a justification for exposing these providers to 
public light, having participated in a classified program. The 
assertion was made: It is like our troops who go abroad and go under 
fire. Mr. President, as the father of a son who spent 20 months in the 
last 3 years as a marine sniper in Iraq, I can tell you that they go 
under tremendous threat and tremendous danger. But they are extremely 
well trained, they are extremely well supported, and they are extremely 
well armed.

To say with a straight face that we can subject private companies to 
that, private companies with American citizens working for them, and 
that we don't care if they are attacked when they don't have any 
protection, they don't have any weapons, they don't have any training, 
I think goes way too far.

That is not reasonable. Let's not hear any more of that stuff, that 
they should be put in the same position as our trained military men and 
women who go into battle accepting the risks of battle. These people, 
these good American citizens, did not expect to be under physical 
attack.

How often are we going to tell those patriotic Americans we have to 
delay further any halt to the lawsuits so we can ''review'' the 
terrorist surveillance program? Enough is enough. Inspectors general 
have very clear roles in our Government. They determine if there is 
waste, fraud, or abuse. Their review under title IV of this bill is 
essentially for these purposes. They will not determine whether the TSP 
was lawful. They will not determine whether the providers acted in good 
faith. That is for the court to do.

So exactly what purpose does it serve to delay liability relief to 
these companies? The only purpose I can think of is to appease these 
liberal activists who


have tried repeatedly throughout this FISA debate to tie the hands of 
the intelligence community and punish these companies with frivolous 
lawsuits.

What message are we sending to all of those private partners who help 
our intelligence community, our military, our law enforcement community 
on a daily basis far beyond the FISA context: Help us now, but we 
cannot guarantee that years later you will not be taken to the cleaners 
because you did. Is that an incentive? Is that the way we want to deal 
with fellow Americans whose help we need?

I appreciate there is serious debate about whether the President has 
article II authority to conduct surveillance. But this is a debate that 
should not impact whether these providers, who trusted their 
Government, who in good faith, on the word of the Attorney General, 
helped to ensure our homeland did not suffer another terrorist attack. 
And we think they should be treated fairly and protected.

We need to remember the Senate Intelligence Committee conducted an 
exhaustive review of the TSP. It found no evidence of illegal or 
unlawful conduct either by the providers or the Government. We agreed 
on a bipartisan basis, ratified by the Senate, that the providers acted 
in good faith. So I do not see how waiting to give them the fair and 
just relief they deserve advances any goals. It is more likely, the 
longer these lawsuits, these frivolous lawsuits go on, that our most 
sensitive sources and methods will be revealed. It becomes much more 
likely that the providers who helped us will refuse to do so unless we 
go through a lengthy process to compel them.

We went without cooperation for some time when the act expired, and 
it was only on the assurance of prompt action that they were able to 
withstand shareholder pressure and the advice of lawyers not to worry.

The Attorney General and the DNI sent a letter on July 7. It says:




 Any FISA modernization bill must contain effective legal 


 protection for those companies sued because they're believed 


 to have helped the Government prevent terrorist attacks. 


 Liability protection, a fair and just result, is necessary to 


 ensure the continued assistance of the private sector.



 H.R. 6304 contains such protection, but the amendment 


 addressed in this letter


Essentially the Bingaman amendment--



 would unnecessarily delay implementation of the protections 


 with the purpose of deferring any decision on this issue for 


 more than a year.



 Accordingly, we as well as the President's other senior 


 advisors will recommend that the President veto any bill that 


 includes such an amendment. The Intelligence Committee has 


 recognized the intelligence community cannot obtain 


 intelligence it needs without assistance from these 


 companies. We recognize that the companies in the future may 


 be less willing to assist the Government if they face the 


 threat of lawsuits, and we know that a delay could result in 


 the very degradation and the cooperation that this bill was 


 designed to provide. Continued delay in protecting those who 


 provided assistance will be invariably noted by those who may 


 some day be called upon to help us again.



 Finally, by raising the prospect that the litigation at 


 issue could eventually proceed, this amendment fails to 


 address the risks that ongoing litigation will result in 


 release of national security sensitive information, a risk 


 that if realized could cause grave harm to national security.


I reserve the remainder of my time on this side. I ask unanimous 
consent that after the Senator from Pennsylvania is recognized, the 
chairman of the committee be recognized for 10 minutes.

I ask unanimous consent that this letter addressed to Leader Reid 
from the DNI and the Attorney General be printed in the Record.