---
---

# IKE SKELTON NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `fdc518eb7d83c4ac38f03853e9ed9eb9`
`Mr. SPRATT — 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and rise 
in emphatic support of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2011.

This bill, as befits its title, makes record investments in our 
Nation's military, authorizing $725 billion to strengthen national 
security. Our friends on the other side of the aisle have said that 
they would do things differently next year. It'll be interesting to see 
whether or not this becomes a high water mark for defense spending, 
given the deficits, debt, and other fiscal policy obstacles that remain 
in our future, that loom over our future. This bill fully funds 
operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, while modernizing the force to 
prepare and be ready for the threats of today and the wars of tomorrow.

Mr. Chairman, I have served on the Armed Services Committee for 28 
years. I have always believed that our first order of business is to 
fund the defense of this Nation. This will be the last defense 
authorization bill on which I have had the honor of working side by 
side with my great friend, Ike Skelton. I will be honored to cast my 
final vote for a good bill that funds our deployed troops, keeps our 
many commitments, and secures the Nation of threats foreign and abroad 
and bears the name of a real patriot, a great patriot, Isaac Newton 
Skelton, known to all of us and loved by all of us by the name of Ike.

I urge my colleagues to join us in supporting this bill with this 
worthy name.