---
---

# RECOGNIZING MILITARY WORKING DOG PROGRAM
## `fdcc88d0b8803ba11e3fb95e0cd7eef5`
`Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey â€” 9 March 2010`

---


Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
some of the unsung heroes of our ongoing military campaigns in 
Afghanistan and Iraq: the Military Working Dogs (MWDs). For over 60 
years, military dogs have been working, serving, and risking their 
lives alongside our brave servicemen and women around the world. Like 
their handlers, these Military Working Dogs have served this country 
with honor and distinction, keeping our country safe both at home and 
abroad.

During World War I, many dogs, beginning with the first military dog, 
Sergeant Stubby, served alongside American forces overseas. On March 
13, 1942, the Army Quartermaster Corps officially recognized and 
incorporated the so-called K-9 Corps. Between 1942 and 1945, over 
10,000 dogs were trained in the War Dogs program. Military dogs have 
continued to play an important role in the U.S. Armed Forces through 
the 20th century and into the 21st. Today, these four-legged soldiers 
serve alongside our soldiers overseas, searching for explosive 
components, drugs, and IEDs. As they do every day in our homes and 
yards, these dogs have proven to be man's best friend on the 
battlefield as well.

I became aware of the important work of Military Working Dogs through 
Frank Yevchak, a constituent from Hewitt, NJ and founder of Support Our 
Four-Legged Soldiers. Frank and his organization have sent thousands of 
dollars of supplies to MWD handlers stationed in Balad, Iraq. Supplies 
range from cooling vests and blankets to toys and treats--whatever the


handlers need to keep the dogs comfortable and able to complete their 
important jobs. Frank also includes letters and cards from local 
students in the care packages. Most recently, Frank has partnered with 
Macopin Middle School in West Milford. In the fall and winter, the 
''Paws of Love Campaign'' at the school was able to raise $1,200 for 
our soldiers and canine companions.

As a dog owner, I understand the important traits of loyalty, 
courage, and dependability that these dogs give to our Armed Forces. 
Today, one day shy of the Military Working Dogs' 68th birthday, I 
recognize the important work of Military Working Dogs and thank their 
owners, trainers, handlers, and supporters for all they do for our 
soldiers and our Nation.
