---
---

# None
## `fdced11404af4e56857cce9b3bdcaf3a`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 18 December 2010`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise to discuss the vote that will occur 
in a little more than an hour on the don't ask, don't tell policy. I 
have some basic thoughts about it, coming from a State where we have 
contributed probably as many or more soldiers to almost every major 
conflict we have had over the last 100 years. We are a State that has 
over 1 million veterans. We have lost soldiers most recently in the 
conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. In Iraq, our killed-in-action number 
was just below 200. At last count, it was about 197. In Afghanistan, it 
is now up to 61, 62 who have been killed in action. People in 
Pennsylvania know what war is about, what sacrifice is about, because 
so many families have contributed to that service and that sacrifice.

When it comes to this change in policy we are advocating, I wish to 
focus on two basic considerations. One is basic integrity and the other 
is valor. We have had a number of statements made by senior military 
leaders, part of this administration and others, who have called for 
repeal of the policy. Secretary Gates, Secretary of Defense for the 
Obama administration and for a good while under the administration of 
President Bush, said:




 I fully support the President's decision. The question 


 before us is not whether the military prepares to make this 


 change but how we best prepare for it.


So said Secretary Gates.

Admiral Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in 
pertinent part:




 It is my personal belief that allowing gays and lesbians to 


 serve openly would be the right thing to do. No matter how I 


 look at this issue, I cannot escape being troubled by the 


 fact that we have in place a policy which forces young men 


 and women to lie about who they are in order to defend their 


 fellow citizens. For me personally, it comes down to 


 integrity.


His statement goes on from there.

Former Secretary of State Powell fully supports the change. I could 
go on from there, and I know folks have cited military leaders in the 
debate. I keep coming back to this question. Secretary Mullen talked 
about integrity and a policy that forces young men and women to lie.

Former National Security Adviser Jim Jones said, quoting in pertinent 
part, that the don't ask, don't tell policy:




 . . . has to evolve with the social norms. I think times 


 have changed. The young men and women who wish to serve their 


 country should not have to lie in order to do that.


I wish to focus on that part of it. How can a policy long endure in 
this country, especially as it relates to the military, that asks 
people to lie? Every day they to have get up and prepare themselves for 
service and sometimes literally for battle, a life and death battle. 
Every day this policy says: But you have to lie about it. You have to 
keep it a secret. You can't let anyone know. You have to lie.

How can a policy endure in this country that is based upon lying and 
not telling the truth? That is at the core of our Republic, whether you 
talk about the rule of law or no man or woman is above the law. All 
those statements, all that philosophy is undergirded by basic 
integrity, that we all try to live by the same rules. If we are not 
telling the truth and we are forcing folks who are willing to serve 
their country to put themselves in harm's way, which doesn't even begin 
to describe the sacrifice, some of these soldiers have not only served 
but been gravely, grievously wounded and some, of course, have been 
killed in action in the current conflicts and many before that, it is a 
basic question about integrity. Are we going to continue to support a 
policy that calls upon people to lie? I don't think the American people 
support that.

Secondly, the basic and related question of valor. We have public 
officials across the country, Members of Congress, public officials in 
our States who stand on Veterans Day and all kinds of days when we 
commemorate and pay tribute to those who have sacrificed, those who 
gave, as Lincoln said, the last full measure of devotion to their 
country. There are a lot of speeches given and commendations accorded 
to people who have served the country. But a lot of that will ring 
hollow if we are saying there is one group of soldiers whom we may not 
want to have in the military, and if we want them in, then they are 
going to have to lie about it. These are young men and women who are 
the definition, the embodiment of service and valor and courage. We 
can't just get up as a politician and give a speech about patriotism 
and then be willing to undermine our argument and undermine our 
military by saying we have to perpetuate a policy that doesn't work and 
is in conflict with who we are.

I want to read a quotation from someone who has served in the 
Congress for the last 4 years but someone who has also served our 
country, someone I know, and he is a friend of mine--I put that on the 
record--but someone we are very proud of and the work he has done in 
both forms of service: as a Member of Congress and serving in our 
military, and that is, Congressman Patrick Murphy from Bucks County, 
PA. For some who do not know their geography, that is on the east side 
of our State. He has been here in the Congress for 4 years. He will be 
leaving this month. But he has been a champion of repealing this 
policy, and he speaks with an integrity and a commitment which I think 
is unmatched because he is not speaking about this policy 
theoretically, he is not speaking about this policy in a textbook 
sense, he is speaking and has fought for the change in this policy from 
the vantage point of someone who has served and who served in 
situations where he could have been killed, sometimes every day of the 
week.

Here is a part of what he has said. There are many things he has said 
about this, but he said:




 The paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne Division in the 


 Army that I served with back in Iraq in 2003 and 2004, they 


 didn't care who you were writing letters back home to, if you 


 had a boyfriend or a girlfriend. They care whether you can 


 handle your assault rifle. Can you kick down a door? Can you 


 do your job so you all come home alive?


That is the challenge he presents to all of us, Congressman Patrick 
Murphy, former member of the 82nd Airborne Division. This policy on the 
battlefield is not theoretical. It is consequential in at least one 
sense. If we continue the policy the way it is, we are going to be less 
effective on the battlefield. If we continue the policy the way it is, 
we are going to have less people serving at a time when we need extra 
help.

We need soldiers on the battlefield. We need to continue to have 
young men and women who will volunteer to serve, knowing that once they 
volunteer, this is not sending you to some base somewhere for a couple 
of years away from conflict--knowing that when you volunteer today--
maybe this was not true 10 or 15 years ago--but today when you 
volunteer, the likelihood of you seeing combat is very high.

So there is a special category of valor and integrity for those who 
are willing to volunteer to serve their country, especially when they 
know they could be sent into a firefight.

You do not have to take the word of one or another Senator, but I 
think we can take the word and base our judgment upon the experience of 
a Member of Congress, in this case from the House, who has also served 
in the 82nd Airborne Division. We should remember his words, what folks 
at home will care about. They care about ''whether you can handle your 
assault rifle.'' ''Can you kick down a door?'' ''Can you do your job so 
you all come home alive?''

When we speak about this policy, this is not theory. This is a 
debate, at


least, about two very important principles: valor, and whether we are 
going to affirm the valor of others who serve and are willing to serve; 
and whether we are going to have a policy based upon a core 
foundational principle of our democracy, which is integrity. That is 
the basic question we have before us.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.