---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `fdcf75c96bef81dbcf109c7eb579e958`
`Mr. JOHANNS — 14 July 2010`

---


Mr. JOHANNS. Mr. President, I rise today to remember and to pay 
tribute to a fallen hero, U.S. Army SPC Edwin C.L. Wood of Omaha, NE.

Edwin was a proud member of B Troop, 1st Squadron, 71st Armored 
Regiment of the 10th Mountain Division operating in Kandahar. As many 
have heard, this area is a Taliban stronghold and one of the most 
dangerous areas in Afghanistan.

On July 5, only a few weeks after arriving there, Specialist Wood was 
killed when an improvised explosive device detonated near his vehicle. 
His death is a great loss to our Nation and to Nebraska, his home 
State. People in his home community of Omaha recall Eddie's big heart, 
his willingness to jump right in to help out, and his longstanding love 
for the military. He was a leader of the North High School Junior ROTC 
Program. He served as a counselor and a mentor at the YMCA Camp in 
Crescent, IA, and from an early age participated in military 
reenactments with his father. Also from an early age he loved wearing 
uniforms. His nickname was ''Freckles,'' which also fit his cheerful, 
helpful personality.

After graduating from North High School in 2009, it did not take long 
to decide that the U.S. Army was the place for him. Specialist Wood's 
Army career was short yet very intense. After entering the Army in 
October 2009, he breezed through basic and advanced training before 
arriving at Fort Drum. Fort Drum is the home of the elite 10th Mountain 
Division which specializes in fighting under harsh terrain and weather 
conditions.

Specialist Wood wanted to serve with the best, and his wish came 
true. Within a month, he deployed to the Kandahar region of 
Afghanistan. Shortly thereafter he first encountered the enemy that 
attacked with an improvised explosive device. Despite lingering effects 
from his injuries, he chose to stay in the fight with his B Troop 
buddies.

The decorations and badges earned during a far too brief Army career 
speak to his dedication and they speak to his bravery: the Army Service 
Medal, the Army Good Conduct Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, 
the Afghanistan Campaign Medal with Bronze Service Star, the Global War 
on Terrorism Service Medal, the Overseas Service Ribbon, NATO Medal, 
Bronze Star Medal, and the Purple Heart.

He proudly wore the Combat Action Badge, the Expert Marksmanship 
Badge with Rifle Bar, and the Overseas Service Bar.

Today, I join Specialist Wood's mother and father, siblings and 
friends in mourning the death of their beloved son, their brother, 
their friend.

Specialist Wood made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our great 
Nation, and we owe him and his family an immeasurable debt of 
gratitude. May God


be with the Wood family and all those who mourn his death and celebrate 
his life and his accomplishments. We will remember Specialist Wood when 
recalling the Nation's warriors who gave their lives so we might live 
in peace. Their names are etched on the conscience of this Nation.

I offer my prayers to all those serving in uniform today and 
especially those serving in peril overseas. May God bless them and 
their families and see them through these difficult times.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.

I note the absence of a quorum.