# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `fdd3850cf78c1cdb2d8d3e34d551e359`
`Mr. BYRD — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, 1 year ago, Congress sent the President a 
war funding supplemental that included clear direction to bring our 
troops home by December of 2007. The President chose to veto that bill. 
If he had signed that bill, most of our troops would be home today.

Instead of bringing our troops home, the President decided to 
increase our commitment of U.S. troops and treasure to a war that has 
now entered its sixth year. Over 4,100 U.S. servicemembers have died. 
Over 30,000 U.S. servicemembers have been wounded. This year, the 
President asked Congress to approve another $178 billion for this 
endless war. With enactment of this supplemental, Congress will have 
approved over $656 billion for the war in Iraq.

Once again, the President threw down the gauntlet and said he would 
veto the supplemental bill if Congress added funding for anything other 
than the war. He made this demand at a time when the U.S. economy is in 
trouble.

Under the President's failed fiscal leadership, deficits and debt are 
on the rise. Unemployment is on the rise, with the largest 1 month 
increase in 20 years. Economic growth came to a virtual halt at the end 
of last year. Food and fuel costs are dramatically climbing. Mr. 
President, 8.8 million home owners have mortgages that exceed the value 
of their homes, and foreclosures have increased 57 percent.

While saying no to funds for America, the President wanted this 
Congress to approve more funding to reconstruct Iraq. We have already 
approved $45 billion for reconstruction projects in Iraq. Despite the 
fact that the Iraqi government is running a huge surplus due to excess 
oil revenues, the President asked this Congress to spend another $3 
billion of American taxpayer dollars on reconstructing Iraq.

The President wants money to build schools in Sadr City but not in 
Seattle. He wants money for roads in Ramadi but not Richmond. The 
President wants money for Mosul but not Minneapolis. He wants to 
reconstruct Baghdad but not Baltimore or Birmingham.

Congress listened to the President. We had hearings on his request, 
and we concluded that, notwithstanding his ill-considered veto threat, 
we would include funding to help our citizens here at home.

The amendment that is before the Senate extends unemployment benefits 
for 13 weeks. Over the past year, the number of unemployed workers in 
this country has grown by 1.6 million to a level of 8.5 million people.

I am pleased that the amendment includes critical funding for our 
veterans. I commend Senator Webb and Senator Warner for their 
leadership in drafting legislation that provides our veterans with an 
education benefit that they have earned.

We also have a moratorium on six burdensome Medicaid regulations. The 
President wanted to pass billions of dollars of expenses on to the 
States for rehabilitation services and school-based services for 
children with special needs. Congress said no.

We have included $2.65 billion for disaster assistance to help the 
victims of the Midwest floods, as well as other disasters that have 
happened over the last year for which the President sought no 
additional funding. We have added funding for the Food and Drug 
Administration to help protect our food and drug supplies. We also 
modified the President's request for the war by adding $160 million to 
his request for funding DOD efforts in Afghanistan. We must never 
forget that those who attacked us on 9/11 trained in Afghanistan, not 
Iraq. We also include language mandating that Iraq match, dollar for 
dollar, further U.S. contributions to reconstructing Iraq.

This year, the Appropriations Committee has held, and will continue 
to hold, oversight hearings looking at waste, fraud and corruption in 
Iraq. Unchecked corruption in Iraq is providing much of the funding for 
the very enemy our servicemen and women are fighting--and President 
Bush has demonstrated either unwillingness or an inability to check the 
flow of funds and weapons from these sources to the enemy. This 
amendment requires the Secretary of State to develop a comprehensive 
anticorruption strategy and submit to Congress the identities of Iraqi 
officials believed to have committed corrupt acts. I am also pleased 
that this legislation continues to provide funding, funding not 
requested by President Bush, for the Special Inspector General for 
Iraqi Reconstruction. As a result of our recent hearings on fraud and 
corruption in Iraq, we learned that there are only five FBI agents 
assigned to investigate fraud in Iraq and Afghanistan. For this 
administration, look no evil, see no evil. Well, it is time to take our 
blinders off. This amendment includes $5 million to increase FBI 
investigations, and the committee will continue to hold hearings on 
fraud and waste in Iraq.

Despite the positive measures for struggling Americans, our veterans, 
and their families included in this amendment, I deeply regret that 
this legislation will go to President Bush without the necessary checks 
to ensure that the war in Iraq is not open-ended. The majority of the 
American people have come to see this war as a costly mistake that 
needs to be brought to a close. This legislation brings us no closer to 
that goal.

However, with this legislation, we will once again take care of our 
troops. We also invest in America here at home.

There is more to do. I am disappointed that the White House blocked 
our efforts to add funding to help the Gulf States recover from 
Hurricane Katrina, to provide additional low-income home energy 
assistance, and to invest in our infrastructure. I have consulted with 
the leadership, and next month, the committee will consider a second 
supplemental to deal with the Midwest floods, Hurricane Katrina, and to 
make critical investments in America.

I urge adoption of the amendment.

I ask unanimous consent that an explanatory statement be printed in 
the Record.