---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `fdd834076892d5d37c4ea032d7ad3292`
`Mr. KYL — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Fred Kagan is a respected expert, a resident scholar at the 
American Enterprise Institute. The point he makes in this erudite 
article is that the primary problem for our forces in Iraq is al-Qaida 
in Iraq. It is the Iraq component of al-Qaida, that either we are 
fighting the al-Qaida forces directly--about 90 percent of whom are 
Iraqis, though the leadership significantly primarily comes from other 
places--Egypt, Jordan, and so on--or we are fighting to maintain peace 
between people whom al-Qaida in Iraq have instigated a conflict with, 
as they did when they bombed the Golden Mosque in Samarra, and that our 
primary effort, therefore, is in defeating al-Qaida in Iraq.


The reason I bring that point up here is also to go to the heart of 
one of the points of the Levin-Reed amendment which is, we need to 
change our mission. Part of it is to change the mission to deal 
primarily with the counterterrorism operations against al-Qaida and al-
Qaida affiliated groups. That would be certainly al-Qaida in Iraq and 
other international terrorist organizations. That is going to be one of 
the three new missions in addition to protecting U.S. and coalition 
forces and infrastructure and training and equipping the Iraqis.

All three of those are part of our mission today. It is simply not 
the case that we can separate our mission today from this mission in 
any meaningful way. As General Petraeus testified when he was asked 
about a new mission, he said counterterrorism requires not just the 
special operations forces--a relatively small force that would be left 
behind under the proposal that is pending before us here--but it 
requires other forces as well, including the kind of combat operations 
we engage in today, our general conventional forces, along with 
intelligence, reconnaissance, surveillance, and all of the other 
forces, which also include logistical support, that are currently used 
in the operations against al-Qaida and the other terrorists who are 
there.

So it is simply a mistake in concept here that somehow we are 
performing a different mission today than would be performed in the 
future, that that is a counterterrorism mission and it can be performed 
with different and less troops. General Petraeus has said that is 
simply not true.

If you stop and think about it for a moment, you have heard reports 
of the way some of these operations are conducted. You get good 
intelligence from a predator aircraft or a human source or someone you 
have an Iraqi, al-Qaida, or other terrorist group that is going to be 
planting an IED in a location or they are making explosives in a 
location, and you have an F-16 that has been up in the air for an hour 
or two, and they get this information, and they relay it to the F-16, 
and they say: Go to these coordinates and drop a bomb on those 
coordinates, and he does that.

Now, it is not some special forces thing that deals with al-Qaida, in 
other words, as a counterterrorism type of war that is totally 
different than anything else. You use many of the same kinds of 
personnel and tactics and equipment you use in conventional warfare. 
That is the point General Petraeus was trying to make. It is an 
artificial distinction to say there is going to be a new and different 
mission under the Levin-Reed proposal than exists today and it can be 
done with a much smaller and different kind of force. General Petraeus 
says: It is simply not so. That is the primary reason


I have trouble with this proposal that is pending. I hope my colleagues 
will defeat it.

I did want to also make this point in the debate: We sometimes get so 
wrapped up in discussing what we think that we do not stop and think 
about the people who are actually doing the fighting there. I have in 
mind both our troops and the very fine officers who lead the troops. We 
have all visited them in Iraq. We have visited those who have been 
wounded, and we grieve with the families of those who have been lost. 
These are America's finest, and they are fighting the worst of the 
worst. They are fighting killers who prey on innocent people, have no 
conscience in killing anyone who is necessary to suit their needs.

This is a brutal war against a brutal enemy. We are asking some of 
our finest young men and women to go into harm's way to perform this 
mission. They want to know what they have done so far--the gains they 
have produced, as General Petraeus called them--will not have been won 
in vain, that those gains can be helped.

What General Petraeus said in his testimony--I am going to summarize 
these quick four points--''the military objectives of the surge are, in 
large measure, being met,'' ''that Coalition and Iraqi forces have 
dealt significant blows to al-Qaeda-Iraq''--incidentally, it is a point 
Frederick Kagan makes in some detail in this article I am having 
printed in the Record--third, ''Iraqi elements have been standing and 
fighting and sustaining tough losses, and they have taken the lead in 
operations in many areas,'' and, finally--this is the point I am 
leading up to--''we will be able to reduce our forces to the pre-surge 
level of brigade combat teams by next summer without jeopardizing the 
security gains that we have fought so hard to achieve.''

That is the key, and that is what the President said should unite us. 
We would all like to bring our troops home, as many as soon as 
possible. The more success we have, the better we are able to do that. 
But we do not want to do it if it means we lose what we have fought so 
hard to gain. I think almost all of us can agree with that proposition. 
But that is why I reached the conclusion that the particular amendment 
that has been proposed here would be counterproductive.

Fortunately, polls of the American people are beginning to show they 
support the Petraeus recommendations. In fact, I was told of a new Pew 
poll within the last few days that had the American people supporting 
the Petraeus recommended troop reductions by the number 57 to 28. That 
is an astounding change from American public opinion of a few months 
ago.

So the American public supports what our troops are accomplishing 
now. To try to find some way to politically triangulate between an 
immediate withdrawal and following the Petraeus recommendations, which 
is essentially what I gather the amendment before us would attempt to 
do, is to try to impose an artificial political construct in a very 
dangerous and very complex environment. There is an old saying that for 
every complex problem there is a simple and wrong solution. I think 
that is what we have here. We have a very complex situation, a very 
brutal enemy, and an attempt to try to triangulate it in order to get a 
certain number of votes in the Senate, to suggest that we can change 
the mission with a different mix of force than we have, contrary to 
General Petraeus's testimony, I think would be a big mistake.

So I urge my colleagues to take these considerations into account 
when they cast their vote and, in particular, again, go back to what 
General Petraeus said. There was a lot of wisdom in his testimony. I 
think all of us here recognize General Petraeus, General Odierno, and 
all of the other fine officers who are in Iraq have given us a path to 
achieve success in Iraq. The sooner that success can be consolidated, 
the sooner our troops can come home.
















 Exhibit 1








 [From the Weekly Standard, Sept. 10, 2007]




 Al Qaeda in Iraq--How To Understand It. How To Defeat It.













(By Frederick W. Kagan)




 Al Qaeda In Iraq is part of the global al Qaeda movement. 


 AQI, as the U.S. military calls it, is around 90 percent 


 Iraqi. Foreign fighters, however, predominate in the 


 leadership and among the suicide bombers, of whom they 


 comprise up to 90 percent, U.S. commanders say. The leader of 


 AQI is Abu Ayyub al-Masri, an Egyptian. His predecessor, Abu 


 Musab al Zarqawi, was a Jordanian.



 Because the members of AQI are overwhelmingly Iraqis--often 


 thugs and misfits recruited or dragooned into the 


 organization (along with some clerics and more educated 


 leaders)--it is argued that AQI is not really part of the 


 global al Qaeda movement. Therefore, it is said, the war in 


 Iraq is not part of the global war on terror: The ''real'' al 


 Qaeda--Osama bin Laden's band, off in its safe havens in the 


 Pakistani tribal areas of Waziristan and Baluchistan--is the 


 group to fight. Furthermore, argue critics of this 


 persuasion, we should be doing this fighting through precise, 


 intelligence-driven airstrikes or Special Forces attacks on 


 key leaders, not the deployment of large conventional forces, 


 which only stirs resentment in Muslim countries and creates 


 more terrorists.



 Over the past four years, the war in Iraq has provided 


 abundant evidence to dispute these assertions.

