---
---

# HONORING THE 8TH BATTALION, 4TH REGIMENT
## `fdf58d3b93bda259c03ec65308f42a29`
`Mr. GOODE — 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. GOODE. Madam Speaker, it is with great honor that I rise today to 
recognize the U.S. Army 8th Battalion, 4th Regiment on the occasion of 
their association reunion, which will take place May 2-6.

The 4th Artillery was authorized and constituted by an Act of 
Congress in June 1812, as the 4th Artillery Regiment. The regiment has 
seen continuous duty since that date. The 8th Battalion, 4th Artillery, 
has served in varied capacities throughout its illustrious service: 
Coast Artillery, Harbor Defense, Anti-Aircraft Artillery, Pack 
Artillery, 177mm Gun Battalion and as a 175mm 18 inch (SP) Gun 
Battalion.

On March 1, 1967, the 8th Battalion, 4th Artillery was activated at 
Fort Sill, OK, as a 175mm gun battalion. Its mission was to deploy on 
July 24, 1967, to the central highlands


of Vietnam. The only battalion from Fort Sill to deploy on its original 
deployment date, the 8th Battalion, 4th Artillery departed Ft. Sill, 
OK, with the personal good wishes and promised continued support from 
the Fort Sill commanding general. The battalion's equipment, including 
its 12 175mm guns, departed in early July. The equipment was moved by 
rail to Houston, TX, then by ship through the Panama Canal and on to 
Vietnam.

The men of the battalion traveled by air to Tacoma, WA, and boarded a 
U.S. naval troop ship, the USNS UPSHUR, along with two smaller Army 
units. On the high seas, after a 12-hour shore break on Okinawa, we 
were notified our mission had changed. We were being diverted to Da 
Nang with a support mission to the 1st and 3rd Marine Divisions. The 
battalion was originally assigned the dual mission of supporting both 
the 1st and 3rd Marine Divisions with long-range heavy artillery fire 
until November 1, 1967, when it was assigned to the 108th Artillery 
Group, reinforcing the 12th Marine Regiment.

From January 31, 1968 until March, the battalion supported the 5th 
Marines and the Americal Division during ''Operation Auburn.'' It 
participated in ''Operation Rock'' by firing in support of the 7th 
Marines from March 6 until March 10, 1968. From March 13 until March 
26, 1968, it supported the 7th Marines during ''Operation Worth.'' From 
August 1968 until September 1968, the battalion provided general 
support for units operating near the DMZ.

During the first year in Vietnam, the battalion changed over 300 gun 
tubes. In its 4 years in the Republic of Vietnam, the battalion had 
fired more than 450,000 rounds of 175mm/S inch ammunition in support of 
the United States and the Army of the Republic of Vietnam (ARVN) 
forces. It had supported operations throughout the northern sector of 
South Vietnam and had fired from positions at Da Nang, Dong Ha, Quang 
Tn, Bastone, Camp Lo, Camp J J Carroll, Thon Som Lam (''Rockpile''), 
True Khe, FSB C-I, FSB C-2, and FSB A-4 (Con Thien).

In ceremonies held August 6, 1971, at Dong Ha Combat Base, the 
battalion was presented the Meritorious Unit Citation. The award 
covered the period from January 31,
1968 to January 31, 1969, and was 
primarily for actions in support of the 1st and 3rd Marine Divisions. 
The battalion was also awarded the Naval Presidential Unit Citation in 
support of the 3rd Marine Division and the Republic of Vietnam Cross of 
Gallantry.


As the Republic of Vietnam Armed Forces began their withdrawal from 
Laos and the Khe San area, the need for artillery support along the 
route of egress became vital. By April 1971, all remaining elements of 
the battalion departed the Khe San Plains. The 8th Battalion, 4th 
Artillery, was the first heavy artillery battalion into the Khe San 
area and the last heavy unit to return.

In the 63 days that the battalion was involved with the Khe San 
Operation, it suffered losses of 4 persons killed and 41 wounded, with 
17 vehicles destroyed. It was credited with costing the enemy 1,238 
killed, unknown numbers wounded, 26 field guns destroyed, 3 tanks 
destroyed, 5 fighting positions destroyed, 16 wheeled vehicles 
destroyed, and 2,644 secondary explosions. During this same period, in 
line with increased troop withdrawals, the American ground troops in 
the area turned over their fire bases to the ARVN and withdrew to Quang 
Tri for their consolidation.

At 0930 hours, 15 October 1971, the 8th Battalion, 4th Artillery, 
conducted a redeployment ceremony at Quang Tri Combat Base. The 
battalion colors were furled and cased for redeployment to Fort Sill, 
OK, where the 3rd Battalion, 73rd Artillery, was being redesignated the 
4th Battalion, 4th Artillery. On this date, the unit completed its 
tactical mission, and after completing the Keystone stand down 
operations from October 15 through November 15, 1971, sent its color 
guard and colors to Fort Sill to begin a new phase in the illustrious 
career of the 4th Artillery.

After a stay of 4 years on the DMZ, the battalion had truly earned 
its unofficial motto, ''The Guns of the DMZ,'' with 26 killed in action 
and numerous wounded. Today the 4th Artillery continues with the 2nd 
Battalion, 4th Artillery, a multiple launch rocket system battalion 
stationed at Fort Sill, OK. The 2nd Battalion, 4th Artillery deployed 
to Iraq during the initial assault of ''Desert Storm,'' and continue 
their combat role in the great tradition of the historic 4th Artillery 
Regiment.

I appreciate the opportunity to offer these remarks and share my 
appreciation for our veterans. We are forever grateful to the 8th 
Battalion, 4th Artillery and all the veterans who have preserved our 
country.
