---
---

# CELEBRATING NATIONAL AGRICULTURE WEEK
## `fe0971cea7c51f88d0ef864b22176fe9`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. Smith) for 
bringing the highlight on agriculture here, because this is Agriculture 
Week. I am confident there have been some Agriculture Weeks go by here 
in this Congress without mention of such an important event.

I would like to take this discussion, if I could, I would like to 
take this discussion to a broader point, an overall point over the 
components that Mr. Smith has laid out here and try to put it into a 
perspective of where we are today in agriculture, and what it means for 
the future of agriculture, and what it means for the future of the 
world.




And I look back upon some of the great movements that have taken 
place in the history of humanity. And those movements being, for 
example, we go back to the stone age, and then from the stone age we 
move into the bronze age, and then the iron age, and then the 
industrial age.

In the industrial age we figured out how we could have labor that 
would be compartmentalized in its approach so that it wasn't one person 
that made all the components of a machine and put it together, but it 
was mass production. And in the industrial era, when we took to mass 
production, we raised the level of the standard of our living and 
raised the level of our technology dramatically. That was the 
Industrial Revolution.

And then we came along into the information age, where we figured out 
with the invention of the microchip that we could store and transfer 
information faster and more efficiently than ever before. And it took 
both the industrial era and the information age, took our society, took 
our culture to a higher level. A quantum leap in our economy.

Well, agriculture has really sat here, and since the inception of 
agriculture, the first time I think it was a cavewoman, planted some 
seeds outside the cave or recognized that they were growing, and they 
figured out how to cultivate crops thousands of years ago. What 
agriculture has done for thousands of years has just produced food and 
fiber. Produced it a lot better than they ever did before, more 
efficiently than ever before, as Mr. Smith has articulated very well 
about the increase in our production and our production capability, 
nearly an entire semi-load in a single hour today. But it is still food 
and fiber. Food and fiber for thousands of years the foundation of 
agriculture. But today we are going the next level up. We are food, 
fiber, and renewable fuels. A third level now for agriculture.

And I believe that the fuel components, the ethanol, the biodiesel in 
particular, and then the way we are able to render animal fats back 
into biodiesel, so now we have taken this next level not just for 
energy and not just for fuel, but at the same time where biotech has 
moved agriculture up to another level to where we are really in the 
middle of science at the same time.

But I think that agriculture has gone from that level of food and 
fiber and has taken the kind of quantum leap up into food, fiber, 
renewable fuel, and biotech products, the same kind of quantum leap 
that our society took when we went into the information age or when we 
went into the Industrial Revolution. Those are huge, huge things that 
we need to contemplate here, the efficiencies that have come into 
agriculture and the technology.

So today I have the privilege of representing one of the top ethanol 
production and biodiesel, actually wind generation of electricity 
production, renewable fuels production congressional districts in 
America. And I have watched that capital be invested. Private capital 
last year invested over $1 billion in infrastructure to produce 
renewable energy just in my congressional district, one out of 435 
congressional districts, Mr. Speaker. And that is a huge investment, 
but it also says a lot about an industry that is being developed and an 
industry that is growing, and it is making us less dependent on Middle 
Eastern oil.

And as we move forward into cellulosic, and we are very confident 
that we can develop the technology to produce cellulosic ethanol, that 
opens up vast acres for the production of cellulose that has not been 
used in that kind of an efficient fashion before. And, again, that will 
produce a significantly larger portion of our ethanol that will go then 
to reduce our dependency on Middle Eastern gas.

But that is the energy side of this. And I talk about the energy side 
a lot, and I would like to maybe stretch our minds a little bit on what 
can happen with the biotech side, what is happening with the biotech 
side.

For example, there is biotech research that recognizes that there are 
25 million little babies in the world each year that die unnecessarily 
due to the dehydration that is associated with diarrhea. And if the 
lactopheron, the component of mother's milk, can get into that little 
baby, that little baby that is on its last gasp and if we can put 
lactopheron in that baby, within 3 to 4 days that baby has its health 
back, its vigor back, and the baby is ready to go home with its mother. 
Well, we can't find enough and produce enough lactopheron by going to 
the mothers to extract it from their milk. But what we have done with 
biotech is spliced that lactopheron genetic chain into rice; and so 
then when we harvest the rice, we bring the rice back in and we extract 
the lactopheron, that genetic chain of lactopheron from the rice, and 
turn it into a little powder lactopheron that is a little piece of 
powder in a packet like maybe the sugar you put in your coffee. You 
tear that, drop that into a little vial of water, stir it up, warm it a 
little, give it to that baby that would be dead in a few hours, and 
that baby springs back to life and in 3 to 4 days that baby is ready to 
go home. That is science and technology.

And today we can save the lives of 6 million babies on 60 acres of 
rice. And we are extracting that lactopheron up there in our 
neighborhood, not very far from the Missouri River, I would add, Mr. 
Smith. It is on my side. That is one of the great things that we can do 
and are doing with science.

Another one is trypsin, and that is a component that you find in your 
tears. And as those tears wash across the eyeball, they are an 
antiseptic that keeps your eyes from getting infection in them, and one 
of the things from that would be pink eye. So we have also learned how 
to synthesize trypsin. And you see the pictures, especially Africa and 
in poor countries, of flies walking across little children's eyeballs. 
Well, the trypsin cures the blindness that comes from that kind of an 
affliction. That is another piece of biotech science that we have going 
on.

Another one, and I would say, Mr. Speaker, this is the most 
impressive and fantastic development and I am going to call it also 
agriculture. Of all the presentations that I have heard, of all the 
briefings that I have had the privilege to receive, this one is I 
believe the most impressive and has tremendous implications for all of 
humanity, and that is that today we have spliced through transgenics, 
and we can clone and use transgenics in the same operation, and it goes 
on thousands of times a day in America, at least the attempts to do, 
but splice through transgenics the human immune system into that of a 
hog. Now, we raise a few hogs in our neighborhood, too, so we are 
paying attention to those things. But it happens that not very far from 
where I live there is only one person in the country that is, at least 
for profit, bringing pigs by cesarean in a sterile environment. And 
this is Dr. Rexanne Struve, Manning, Iowa. She is working with a doctor 
from Pennsylvania who is working out of Blacksburg, Virginia, Virginia 
Tech University. And there they have spliced the immune genetics from a 
baboon into that of a hog, and raised that hog up until the hog was of 
adequate size that they could go in and harvest the heart from that hog 
and transplant it into a baboon.

Now this being an experiment, the baboon lived for 6 months. Now, 
that is a little better than the first human heart transplant; I think 
significantly better.


But what they have proven now is that they are confident that they 
can transplant through transgenics this human immune system into a hog. 
And in doing so, and we are only 3 years, maybe 4 years away from being 
able to do this effectively, they can also custom build the organ 
rejection genetics. There are 12 major indicators, and they can put 
together the configuration of those 12 major indicators so they have 
the highest possibility of organ acceptance on a transplant and the 
lowest possibility of rejection for an organ transplant. So we will be 
able to very soon custom raise human organs in hogs. And today we are 
transplanting out of hogs anterior cruciate ligaments, knee ligaments, 
Mr. Speaker, and also heart valves. And we have done that for years. 
And the reason we can do that is that cartilage, and so there is not a 
rejection factor for cartilage.

But organs themselves; so I brought up we can raise in hogs 28 
different organs. Not just hearts, but lungs, esophagus, stomach, 
bladder. One of the important ones, kidneys, pancreas, liver. Name your 
organ. Except for the brain;


we really don't plan to transplant that hog's brain in there. I think 
there are some folks in this Congress that might have had that already 
happen, Mr. Smith. At any rate, we would limit that organ. But there 
are 28 organs that we believe we can utilize in transplanting those 
organs from a hog into a human being. We had success doing that with 
anterior cruciate ligaments and with heart valves. We can surely do 
that with all the other organs.

And one of the most important is skin transplants. The burn victims 
that we have, the burn victims coming back from Iraq, to be able to 
give them a new skin that is custom raised in the feed lot in a 
sterile, sterile environment. And then the next step after that is to 
match your identical DNA, Mr. Speaker, so you can have your own 
customized hog there that has got customized organs that are identical 
as if they happened to have been your twin brother.

We will get there with this science, and it won't be there very long 
from now, 2 to 3 years on the first part of this matching the DNA 
chains exactly to take a sample. And raising those organs will happen 
within about, I am going to say, 12 to 15 years. But those are some of 
the things that we can do with biotechs in both the plant and animal 
science. And couple that with the renewable fuels, couple that with the 
tremendous production that we have provided. At the same time, we have 
more soil conservation, better water conservation, more fertilizer 
conservation, better land management, better processing and handling of 
our manure, for example.

There is no better steward for the environment than the American 
farmer. No one cares more about their water quality. No one cares more 
about their air quality. They live right in the middle of that every 
day, and they care about their land. They want to hand that along to 
the next generation and the next generation. The best stewards are the 
ones in charge, and they are in Iowa, they are in Nebraska, they are 
all across the Corn Belt, all across the soybean area, and they go from 
coast to coast with the specialty crop farmers.

This is a tremendous production system that we have in the United 
States, with outstanding and impressive people that commit their lives 
to feeding the world. And we need to honor them today on Ag Week here 
on the floor of Congress. And I certainly appreciate and respect the 
gentleman from Nebraska for raising this issue and being here tonight 
and for the opportunity to say a few words.