# CONGRATULATING THE STATE OF ISRAEL ON CHAIRING A UNITED NATIONS  COMMITTEE FOR THE FIRST TIME IN HISTORY
## `fe0fd0cd8968f732d09f447eaa441640`
`Ms. BERKLEY — 15 October 2007`

---


Ms. BERKLEY. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from the great 
State of New York and my good friend from the State of Florida for 
introducing this important resolution. For too long, dictators and 
despots have hijacked the United Nations in order to serve their own 
purposes. They cynically target Israel in order to shift attention from 
their own brutality, passing countless resolutions condemning Israel 
without uttering a word about what is going on in Burma, the Sudan or 
North Korea.

Madam Speaker, while we congratulate Israel today for a great 
achievement, I am still very worried the U.N.'s condemnations of Israel 
helped to stoke the fires of global anti-Semitism. For better or for 
worse, the world looks to the United Nations to set standards for human 
rights, and when instead it singles out Israel for constant 
recriminations, the U.N. becomes a platform for burgeoning anti-
Semitism around the world and anti-Israel rhetoric. Last week I chaired 
the Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue in my hometown of Las Vegas, 
Nevada. Among the many issues we discussed with our friends from the 
European Parliament was the alarming rise of global anti-Semitism. Abe 
Foxman, the national director of the Anti-Defamation League briefed us 
on the widespread belief in the Muslim world that Israel and the Jews 
committed the 9/11 terrorist attack on this country. He told us about 
Malaysia, where there are no Jews, and yet where the president of that 
country blames the Jews for the economic problems in his country 
anyway.

In Europe, since 2000, there has been a surge of anti-Semitic 
incidents. Even here at home, a few misguided and uninformed people say 
the Jews are somehow responsible for the war in Iraq. I am extremely 
concerned about the rise of anti-Semitism globally, and it is not 
unrelated to what goes on at the United Nations. I am afraid the U.N.'s 
rhetoric serves as a great recruiting tool for terrorists and anti-
Semites when it condemns Israel and uses old anti-Semitic canards to do 
it.

Madam Speaker, it is surely a step in the right direction that Israel 
is chairing a U.N. committee. We are right to congratulate Israel for 
this great achievement. It is about time. But so much more must be done 
as this resolution states. Today, with this resolution, we call on the 
United Nations to officially and publicly condemn anti-Semitic 
statements made at its meetings and hold United Nations member states 
accountable when they make such statements. We must fight back against 
the growing scourge of global anti-Semitism and growing anti-Israel 
rhetoric while we continue to fight for Israel's greater recognition at 
the United Nations.

I thank the gentleman from New York for his leadership on this issue, 
among many others.