---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `fe22c7f6d383d20b59100fdd741c737a`
`Mr. BENNET — 16 December 2010`

---


Mr. BENNET. M. President, it is with a heavy heart that I honor the 
life and heroic service of SPC Matthew W. Ramsey. Specialist Ramsey, 
assigned to the 101st Airborne Division, based in Fort Campbell, KY, 
died on November 29, 2010, of injuries sustained when his unit faced 
small arms fire. Specialist Ramsey was serving in support of Operation 
Enduring Freedom in Nangarhar Province, Afghanistan. He was 20 years 
old.

A native of Quartz Hill, CA, Specialist Ramsey graduated from Quartz 
Hill High School in 2008 and enlisted in the Army. He served two tours 
of duty in Afghanistan, both with decoration. Among many other awards, 
Specialist Ramsey earned the National Defense Service Medal, the Global 
War on Terrorism Medal, and the NATO Medal.

During over 2 years of service, Specialist Ramsey distinguished 
himself through his courage, dedication to duty, and unremitting 
commitment to family. Shortly after enlistment, Specialist Ramsey 
learned from his wife that he was to become a father. He saw the Army 
as a path to attaining a bright future for his new family. His wife, 
Mirella, is expecting a second child in early 2011.

Specialist Ramsey worked on the front lines of battle, serving in the 
most dangerous areas of Afghanistan. He is remembered by those who knew 
him as a consummate professional with an unending commitment to 
excellence. His family remembers him as a dedicated son, husband, and 
father.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' 
Specialist Ramsey's service was in keeping with this sentiment by 
selflessly putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He 
lived with a sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield was 
uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Specialist Ramsey will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To Wayne and Melissa, Specialist Ramsey's parents, Mirella, his wife, 
Zachary, his son, and his entire family I cannot imagine the sorrow you 
must be feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain of your loss will be 
eased by your pride in Matthew's service and by your knowledge that his 
country will never forget him. We are humbled by his service and his 
sacrifice.











Sergeant First Class James E. Thode


Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I honor the life and 
heroic service of SFC James E. Thode. Sergeant Thode, assigned to the 
118th Engineer Company, 1457th Engineer Battalion, Army National Guard, 
died on


December 2, 2010, from injuries he sustained when an improvised 
explosive device detonated near his patrol. He was serving in support 
of Operation Enduring Freedom in Khost Province, Afghanistan. He was 45 
years old.

A native of Kirtland, NM, Sergeant Thode graduated from Catalina High 
School, in Tucson, AZ, and the University of Arizona. Sergeant Thode 
served as an officer in the Farmington, New Mexico, police department 
for 14 years. He was a senior member of the SWAT team and also served 
in the Army National Guard, deploying for tours in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

During his years of service, Sergeant Thode distinguished himself 
through his courage, dedication to duty, and willingness to take on any 
job. Fellow soldiers respected his intensity, and they relied heavily 
on his leadership. Sergeant Thode was awarded numerous medals and 
awards, including the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, the Army 
Commendation Medal, two Army Achievement Medals, and the Army Good 
Conduct Medal.

Sergeant Thode worked on the front lines of battle, serving in the 
most dangerous areas of Afghanistan. He is remembered by those who knew 
him as a consummate professional with an unending commitment to 
excellence. Friends at the Farmington Police Department note that he 
was beloved by his colleagues. They remember Sergeant Thode as an 
effective manager who led by example.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Sergeant 
Thode's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by selflessly 
putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He lived with a 
sense of the highest honorable purpose.

Sergeant Thode braved the chaos of combat zone throughout Iraq and 
Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield was uncertain, he 
pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her safety, and the 
freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he touched, 
Sergeant Thode will forever be remembered as one of our country's 
bravest.

To Sergeant Thode's entire family--I cannot imagine the sorrow you 
must be feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain of your loss will be 
eased by your pride in James's service and by your knowledge that his 
country will never forget him. We are humbled by his service and his 
sacrifice.
