---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `fe281c1ba5e636ef536fd31f3f351d27`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I am pleased to cosponsor the Restoring 
the Constitution Act of 2007, which was introduced today by Senator 
Dodd. It amends the deeply flawed Military Commissions Act of 2006 to 
restore basic due process rights and to ensure that no person is 
subject to indefinite detention without charge based on the sole 
discretion of the President.

Let me be clear: I welcome efforts to bring terrorists to justice. 
This administration has for too long been distracted by the war in Iraq 
from the fight against al Qaeda. We need a renewed focus on the 
terrorist networks that present the greatest threat to this country.

Last year, the President agreed to consult with Congress on the 
makeup of military commissions only because he was essentially ordered 
to do so by the Supreme Court in the Hamdan decision. Congress should 
have taken that opportunity to pass legislation that would allow these 
trials to proceed in accordance with our laws and our values. That is 
what separates America from our enemies. These trials, conducted 
appropriately, would have had the potential to demonstrate to the world 
that our democratic, constitutional system of government is not a 
hindrance but a source of strength in fighting those who attacked us.

Instead, we passed the Military Commissions Act, legislation that 
violates the basic principles and values of our constitutional system 
of government. It allows the government to seize individuals on 
American soil and detain them indefinitely with no opportunity for them 
to challenge their detention in court. And the new law would permit an 
individual to be convicted on the basis of coerced testimony and even 
allow someone convicted under these rules to be put to death.

The checks and balances of our system of government and the 
fundamental fairness of the American people and legal system are among 
our greatest strengths in the fight against terrorism. I was deeply 
disappointed that Congress enacted the Military Commissions Act. The 
day that bill became law was a stain on our Nation's history.

It is time to undo the harm caused by that legislation.

The Restoring the Constitution Act amends the Military Commissions 
Act to remedy its most serious flaws, and I am pleased to support it.

First of all, this legislation would restore the great writ of habeas 
corpus, to ensure that detainees at Guantanamo Bay and elsewhere--
people who have been held for years but have not


been tried or even charged with any crime--have the ability to 
challenge their detention in court. Senator Dodd's bill would repeal 
the habeas stripping provisions of both the Military Commissions Act 
and the Detainee Treatment Act.

Habeas corpus is a fundamental recognition that in America, the 
government does not have the power to detain people indefinitely and 
arbitrarily. And that in America, the courts must have the power to 
review the legality of executive detention decisions.

Habeas corpus is a longstanding vital part of our American tradition, 
and is enshrined in the U.S. Constitution.

As a group of retired judges wrote to Congress last year, habeas 
corpus ''safeguards the most hallowed judicial role in our 
constitutional democracy--ensuring that no man is imprisoned 
unlawfully.''

The Military Commissions Act fundamentally altered that historical 
equation. Faced with an executive branch that has detained hundreds of 
people without trial for years now, it eliminated the right of habeas 
corpus.

Under the Military Commissions Act, some individuals, at the 
designation of the executive branch alone, could be picked up, even in 
the United States, and held indefinitely without trial, without due 
process, without any access whatsoever to the courts. They would not be 
able to call upon the laws of our great nation to challenge their 
detention because they would have been put outside the reach of the 
law.

That is unacceptable, and it almost surely violates our Constitution. 
But that determination will take years of protracted litigation. Under 
the Dodd bill, we would not have to wait. We would restore the right to 
habeas corpus now. We can provide a lawful system of military 
commissions so that those who have committed war crimes can be brought 
to justice, without denying one of the most basic rights guaranteed by 
the Constitution to those held in custody by our government.

Some have suggested that terrorists who take up arms against this 
country should not be allowed to challenge their detention in court. 
But that argument is circular--the writ of habeas allows those who 
might be mistakenly detained to challenge their detention in court, 
before a neutral decision-maker. The alternative is to allow people to 
be detained indefinitely with no ability to argue that they are not, in 
fact, enemy combatants. Unless it can be said with absolute certainty 
that every person detained as an enemy combatant was correctly 
detained--and there is ample evidence to suggest that is not the case--
then we should make sure that people can't simply be locked up forever, 
without court review, based on someone slapping a ''terrorist'' label 
on them.

We must return to the great writ. We must be true to our Nation's 
proud traditions and principles by restoring the writ of habeas corpus, 
by making clear that we do not permit our government to pick people up 
off the street, even in U.S. cities, and detain them indefinitely 
without court review. That is not what America is about.

But the Restoring the Constitution Act does far more than restore 
habeas corpus. It also addresses who can be subject to trial by 
military commission.

The Military Commissions Act was justified as necessary to allow our 
government to prosecute Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other dangerous men 
transferred to Guantanamo Bay in 2006. Yet if you look at the fine 
print of that legislation, it becomes clear that it is much, much 
broader than that. It would permit trial by military commission not 
just for those accused of planning the September 11 attacks, but also 
individuals, including legal permanent residents of this country, who 
are alleged to have ''purposefully and materially supported 
hostilities'' against the United States or its allies.

This is extremely broad. And by including hostilities not only 
against the United States but also against its allies, the Military 
Commissions Act allows the U.S. to hold and try by military commission 
individuals who have never engaged, directly or indirectly, in any 
action against the United States.

Not only that, but the Military Commissions Act would also define as 
an unlawful enemy combatant subject to trial by military commission, 
anyone who ''has been determined to be an unlawful enemy combatant by a 
Combatant Status Review Tribunal or another competent tribunal 
established under the authority of the President or the Secretary of 
Defense.'' This essentially grants a blank check to the executive 
branch to decide entirely on its own who can be tried by military 
commission.

Senator Dodd's bill makes clear that the President cannot 
unilaterally decide who is eligible for trial by military commission. 
Under the Dodd bill, in order to be tried by military commission, an 
individual must have directly participated in hostilities against the 
United States in a zone of active combat, or have been involved in the 
September 11 attacks, and cannot be a lawful enemy combatant.

Senator Dodd's bill also addresses the structure and process of the 
military commissions themselves. It ensures that these military 
commission procedures hew closely to the long-established military 
system of justice, as recommended by countless witnesses at 
congressional hearings last summer.

Some examples of the ways in which the Dodd bill improves the 
military commission procedures include: It prevents the use of evidence 
in court gained through torture or coercion. It ensures that any 
evidence seized within the United States without a search warrant 
cannot be introduced as evidence. It empowers military judges to 
exclude hearsay evidence they deem to be unreliable. It authorizes the 
existing U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces to review decisions 
by military commissions, rather than the newly created ''Court of 
Military Commission Review,'' whose members would be appointed by the 
Secretary of Defense. And it provides for expedited judicial review of 
the Military Commissions Act to determine the constitutionally of its 
provisions before anyone is tried by military commission, so that we 
will not face even more delays in the future.

Many of these provisions were included in the bill passed by the 
Senate Armed Services Committee in September 2006, but then stripped 
out or altered in backroom negotiations with the Administration. The 
bill also improves changes to the War Crimes Act and emphasizes the 
importance of compliance with the Geneva Conventions.

In sum, Senator Dodd's legislation addresses many of the most 
troubling and legally suspect provisions of the Military Commissions 
Act. Congress would be wise to make these changes now, rather than wait 
around while the Military Commissions Act is subject to further legal 
challenge, and another 4 or 5 years are squandered while cases work 
their way through the courts again.

In closing let me quote John Ashcroft. According to the New York 
Times, at a private meeting of high-level officials in 2003 about the 
military commission structure, then-Attorney General Ashcroft said: 
''Timothy McVeigh was one of the worst killers in U.S. history. But at 
least we had fair procedures for him.'' How sad that Congress passed 
legislation about which the same cannot be said. We can and must undo 
this mistake.