---
---

# None
## `fe2fec7227e7de3b4f134ac5a4ce9b4a`
`Mr. JONES of North Carolina â€” 11 December 2007`

---


Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, too often during wartime, 
tragedy takes center stage and heart-warming stories never get told. 
Tonight I would like to share a truly touching story with my colleagues 
in the House and with the American people.

Corporal Dustin Jerome Lee was a United States Marine Corps working-
dog handler who was killed in action on March 21, 2007, in Fallujah, 
Iraq. Corporal Lee and his canine partner, Lex, a 7-year-old German 
shepherd from Camp Lejeune were a highly trained explosives detection 
team. Lex, who was due for retirement after his combat tour in Iraq, 
suffered shrapnel wounds from the same enemy-fired rocket-propelled 
grenade that took Corporal Lee's life.

Following Corporal Lee's death, the Lee family began seeking to adopt 
their son's canine companion who was with their son during the last 
moments on Earth. However, after filing the necessary paperwork, 
contacts at Marine Corps Logistic Base Albany indicated that Lex had 
been medically evaluated and, although injured, was fit for duty and 
not yet eligible for adoption.

I first learned of the Lee family's situation by reading the short 
story, ''My Partner Dustin,'' written by John Burnam, author of ''Dog 
Tags of Courage.''

Madam Speaker, at this time I will submit the text of the story for 
the Congressional Record.














 My Partner Dustin














(By John C. Burnam)




 I'm a U.S. Marine and the primary element of a two-member 


 team trained to hunt and locate explosives. My partner and I 


 trained as a team for many months honing our expertise to 


 save American lives in the War on Terrorism in Iraq.



 The date is March 21, 2007 and I was on the job in 


 Fallujah, Iraq when an enemy fired Rocket Propelled Grenade 


 (RPG) exploded in our midst. I was blasted to the ground. I'm 


 Stunned. My head is ringing and my body feels numb. My eyes 


 can't quite focus on anything.



 My partner is lying next to me severely wounded and 


 bleeding. I move to him and touch him but he's not 


 responding. I feel sharp pains in my side and back. I'm 


 bleeding but deal with it and concentrate on comforting my 


 partner and protecting him from further harm.



 Everything happened so fast that it caused disorientation 


 and confusion. My senses pick up the lingering smell of burnt 


 powder and smoke from the explosion. I hear lots of American 


 voices and heavy boot-steps hurrying all around us. They 


 reach our location and immediately attend to my partner. And 


 then they carry him away. I'm separated from my partner for 


 the first time. I'm not clear of thought and then I too am 


 carried way but to a different hospital.



 I'm in a building lying on a table with lights above and 


 people talking. Still dazed and confused I hear a strange 


 voice say my name, ''Lex!'' I gesture a slight reflex of 


 acknowledgement. ''Lex! You are going to be okay buddy! Just 


 lay still. We are going to take care of your hurts, so stay 


 calm okay, Lex?'' My eyes dart around the room searching for 


 my partner, but he's not there and no one can interpret my 


 thoughts.



 I'm released from the hospital and well enough to travel so 


 they transfer me from Iraq to a U.S. Marine Corp base in 


 Albany, Georgia. I really miss my partner, Dusty. I know 


 something has happened to him because he would never have 


 left me alone for so long.



 Yes, my name is Lex. I'm a seven year old German shepherd 


 Military Working Dog. My master and loyal partner is Corporal 


 Dustin Jerome Lee, U.S. Marine Corps canine handler from 


 Mississippi. I'm well disciplined to




 my master's commands and expertly trained to sniff out bombs 


 and explosives. Where's my master, Dusty? Where's Dusty, my 


 partner? No one can understand me but Dusty. Where's Dusty?



 Iraq was to be my last combat tour before retirement. Dusty 


 talked to me all the time about going home and adopting me. I 


 sure do miss my Dusty. He is the best friend I've ever had. I 


 love that crazy Marine from Mississippi!



 No one can measure the love and unconditional loyalty I 


 have for Dusty. I'd sacrifice my own life for him and he 


 knows it. I just wish I could have stopped that RPG or pushed 


 Dusty away from that powerful blast. It all happened in a 


 blink of an eye and I didn't see it coming until it was too 


 late. Now I sit alone in my kennel-run waiting for the day 


 Dusty shows up.



 The U.S. Marines are treating me very well. I get enough 


 food and water and exercise each day. And the Veterinarian 


 comes by to examine my wounds on a regular basis. I just 


 can't sleep well at night. I wake up to every little noise 


 and I think about Dusty. Where can that Marine be?



 The nights are long. The days turn into weeks. Still no 


 Dusty! My wounds are healing and the hair is growing back. 


 The pain still resides in my back but I can walk okay. I have 


 a piece of shrapnel near my spine that the Veterinarians 


 avoided removing for fear of further health complications. 


 I've been fortunate to be declared physically unable to 


 perform in a combat zone.



 One of the dog handlers gave me a real good bath and 


 grooming. I felt so refreshed because I was on my way to meet 


 Dusty's family. Maybe Dusty will be there waiting for me. 


 When I arrived I sensed something was not quite right. Dusty 


 wasn't there and everyone was sad, but very happy to greet 


 me. I then realized that I was attending Dusty's funeral. 


 Everyone showed up to pay their respects.



 Dusty is a real American hero and he was buried with full 


 military honors. I was so proud to have been his last best 


 friend and partner. At one particular moment of total silence 


 during the ceremony, I sniffed a slight scent in the air that 


 was very familiar. It smelled like Dusty. I figured he sent 


 me a signal that he knew I was there! I moaned a sigh of 


 grief that he would only hear and understand.



 I was greeted by the Lee family with joy in their hearts. 


 The picture is of Dustin's mom, Rachel, and me in church. It 


 felt so warm and comfortable to be with my partner's loving 


 family. I wanted to stay but I was escorted away after the 


 funeral and back to Albany, Georgia. What is going to happen 


 to me now?



 Wait a minute! I was due for retirement, right? Why did the 


 military take me to see Dusty's family and not leave me 


 there? I belong with them in Mississippi not here in Georgia. 


 There is something very wrong with this picture!



 The Lee family adopting me would not be too much to ask 


 considering they will never again see their son, grandson, 


 brother, nephew and friend. Adopting me will keep a big part 


 of Dusty's life alive for them and for me too! I will enable 


 Dusty's family to experience what he already knew about me. I 


 loved and protected him everywhere we went and even on the 


 battlefield in Iraq. It's time the U.S. Marine Corps allowed 


 Dustin's family to adopt me. I'm not a young pup anymore, you 


 know! I'm of retirement age and I want to spend the rest of 


 my life with the Lee family. It's where I now belong!

After learning this story, I spoke with Corporal Lee's father, Jerome 
Lee, by phone on several occasions. Mr. Lee continued to express the 
joy and comfort that caring for Lex would bring to him and his family, 
and he requested my assistance in securing the adoption of Lex.

After speaking with Mr. Lee, I began contacting the United States 
Marine Corps to communicate and endorse their request. Recently, the 
Marine Corps confirmed to me that the request would be granted and the 
Lee family would be able to retrieve Lex from Marine Corps Logistic 
Base Albany within the next 2 weeks.

Allowing the Lee family to adopt Lex will not only help lessen the 
family's ongoing grief, but also serve as a fitting thank you to 
parents who gave the ultimate gift of their son for this country.

I am so grateful to the United States Marine Corps and Commandant 
James Conway for the tremendous gift they have chosen to bestow upon 
Jerome and Rachel Lee.

I am also very grateful to Brigadier General Michael Regner and Major 
General Robert Dickerson for their role in enabling the adoption to 
proceed.

Although Lex will never replace their son, caring for Lex will bring 
such joy and comfort to the Lee family, as well as to the dog himself. 
Welcoming Lex into the Lee family will keep a big part of Corporal 
Lee's life alive for their family.

Lex loved and protected Corporal Lee on the battlefield, and now 
Corporal Lee's family will have the opportunity to love and protect Lex 
in the peaceful surroundings of their home in Mississippi.

The United States Marine Corps has demonstrated its tremendous 
compassion and understanding by making this adoption a reality for the 
parents of one of our Nation's fallen heroes.

I close, Madam Speaker, by asking God to please bless the United 
States Marine Corps and all of our men and women in uniform, and may 
God continue to bless America.