---
---

# AMERICAN VETERANS DISABLED FOR LIFE COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT
## `fe34ff0a4618494a6f5057ce993f170b`
`Mr. STUPAK — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. STUPAK. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, let me compliment the sponsors of this bill, Mr. Moore 
from Kansas and Mr. Kirk from Illinois. I am down here on another bill, 
but I felt compelled to say a few words, if I may, on this piece of 
legislation, which really honors American disabled veterans with this 
commemorative coin. This will help us raise the money to build this 
monument, which is long overdue.

Whether you are talking about my father-in-law, Ken Olsen, up in 
Escanaba, who was disabled in World War II, or the recent disabled 
members of our Armed Forces coming back from Afghanistan and Iraq, I 
think we can all personally relate to different stories.

Today, Derek Gagne, who spent quite a bit of time at Walter Reed Army 
Hospital, is coming back to the upper peninsula of Michigan, where 
family and friends will be waiting to greet him home. Unfortunately, as 
Derek has left his bed at Walter Reed for an amputation he had to have 
because of injuries sustained in Iraq, unfortunately, that bed is being 
taken by another member from my district who also was wounded in Iraq.

We talk about our disabled veterans and we honor them throughout our 
time, especially in the summer months through the Memorial Day and 4th 
of July and all the holidays we celebrate in parades and ceremonies 
like that, but it is time that we have the memorial here in Washington, 
so those of us who make decisions on war understand that it is more 
than just sending an army here or there, but that there is consequences 
of it.



Whether the injury is an amputation or a closed-head injury, which we 
are seeing so much of in the war in Iraq, each and every injury serves 
to remind us of the horrors of war but also that these men and women 
and their families and their spouses deserve our utmost respect.

So I am very pleased to see this memorial start to take on more and 
more life, to become a reality. And the work of Mr. Moore and Mr. Kirk 
will certainly help bring forth this memorial. I am very honored to not 
only cosponsor H.R. 634, but also to support the American Veterans 
Disabled for Life Commemorative Coin Act.