# DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND
## `fe434029f26ec51836a898986a088714`
`Mr. CORNYN — 11 September 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I think it would be helpful for Members of 
the Senate to recount the history of this pilot program because it 
demonstrates that this pilot program was adopted as part of the treaty 
obligations of the United States, dating back to 1993. I know that 
seems like a long time ago. It was certainly long before I got in the 
Congress. But I do believe this is relevant to the debate.

Of course, in 1993, the North American Free Trade Agreement, NAFTA, 
was adopted. But, relevant to this amendment, it had the requirement 
that signatory countries--in other words, Canada, Mexico, and the 
United States--are to give each other access to each other's long-haul 
commercial trucks. There was initially a refusal to enact the provision 
with regard to Mexican trucks, and in 1995 Mexican trucks were to have 
been given full access to four U.S. border States.

In 2000, under NAFTA, this 1993 treaty obligation, Mexican trucks 
would have been given full access throughout the United States.

In 2001, this matter was taken to a NAFTA arbitration panel, which 
ruled that the United States is in violation of its commitments under 
NAFTA and must open up its highways to Mexican trucks.

In 2001, Congress passes the 2002 Department of Transportation 
appropriations bill, which set 22 safety-related preconditions for 
opening the border to long-haul Mexican trucks.

In 2002, the Secretary of Transportation, Norman Mineta, announced 
that all of the preconditions--those 22 safety preconditions--had been 
met and directed the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to act 
on the Mexican application.

In 2003, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals delayed implementation of 
this provision. But then, in June of 2004, the U.S. Supreme Court 
reversed the decision of the Ninth Circuit and ruled that Mexican 
trucks could operate in the United States pursuant to the 1993 NAFTA 
treaty.

In 2007, the administration announced a pilot project to grant 
Mexican trucks from 100 transportation companies full access to U.S. 
highways.

In May 2007, the Iraq war supplemental mandates that any pilot 
program to give Mexican trucks access beyond the border region cannot 
begin until U.S. trucks have similar access to Mexico and requires a 
report of the Office of the IG.

In September 2007, the Office of the IG issued its report. The next 
day, the administration issued its first permit to enter the United 
States under the program.

I wish to address the concerns many of my constituents have addressed 
to me regarding the Mexican truck demonstration program because I think 
we ought to be guided by the facts and not solely by fear. I 
understand, however, the fear people have of unsafe trucks coming into 
the United States. Frankly, I would not for a moment tolerate that, nor 
do I believe would any Member of the Congress. I firmly believe the 
American people must have confidence that their family's safety is not 
endangered by any truck, whether it be Mexican, American, or Canadian.

As my colleagues know, as I have just recounted, the United States is 
under a treaty obligation through NAFTA to open our interior to long-
haul trucks from Canada and Mexico, just as they are required to open 
their highways to American truckers. I believe we should live up to our 
treaty obligations, and I say that even if I don't necessarily agree 
with them because they are, as a matter of fact, the law of the land, 
and whether I agree with it or the Senator from North Dakota agrees 
with it, once the matter is adopted as a treaty obligation of the 
United States, it is litigated not only by the NAFTA arbitration panel 
but by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and the U.S. Supreme Court, 
and I think his opinion or mine about whether it is something we prefer 
to happen becomes pretty much a moot point if we are to be a nation of 
laws and respect the judgments of the courts, even if we don't happen 
to like it.

I do believe we have a high obligation, however, to ensure that the 
trucks on our roads live up to the high standards of safety the 
American people demand. So I think it is important for people to 
understand what this demonstration program entails because there has 
been misinformation about it.

Under this program, 100 precertified Mexican trucking companies would 
be able to expand operations beyond the U.S. border zones. At the same 
time--and this is an important part of the deal--100 U.S. trucking 
companies would be allowed to operate in Mexico. This is not a one-way 
street; it is a two-way street when it comes to international trade and 
commerce. As required by Congress, Mexican trucks must have a U.S.-
based insurance policy, must comply fully with hours of service 
regulations, must maintain vehicles to U.S. carrier standards, and 
drivers must be able to communicate in English so they can understand 
the instructions of law enforcement and other safety personnel. They 
must also pass drug and alcohol testing requirements.

Many of the safety provisions included in the program the Department 
of Transportation has adopted, in fact, go well beyond what Congress 
has required to date. I am here today to have a real debate about 
safety and what we in Congress can do to take concrete steps to ensure 
the highest standards of truck safety.

The solution to me is simple, and it is embodied in my amendment, 
which we will have an opportunity to vote on. My amendment, for the 
first time, will make it U.S. law that every truck participating in the 
demonstration program must be inspected every 3 months to the same 
standard as U.S. trucks. Every driver entering this country under the 
program will have to verify compliance with safety requirements, and 
they would have to do so every time they entered the United States.

The Department of Transportation's inspector general will be required 
to certify soon after the program is fully implemented that the 
Department has, in fact, inspected every truck and verified every 
driver. This is the Department of Transportation of the United States 
Government; no other government. They must verify every truck 
inspection and verify every driver. If the inspector general of the 
Department of Transportation fails to


certify such, then funding for this program will be automatically 
suspended.

Under this approach, for the first time, we will statutorily enshrine 
in American law the principle that we inspect and certify every Mexican 
truck that enters the United States through this program.

It is also worth noting that this will be the first time in the 
history of the program that there will be an actual congressional 
requirement for the inspector general to certify the program. 
Previously, Congress has only required the inspector general to review 
the program.

Finally, my amendment will require the administration to provide 60 
days' notice to Congress should they wish to extend or otherwise 
continue the demonstration project. Such notice will give this body 
ample time to consider the merits of the program as implemented and 
what modifications, if any, we want to make.

By moving forward on a conditional basis with a threat of a full 
shutdown if the inspector general finds the program is noncompliant, we 
will further incentivize the Department of Transportation to 
strenuously enforce the safety inspection and verification requirements 
under this new law.

It is also worth noting that the Department has already taken a ''go 
slow'' approach--I am glad they have--planning to allow only up to 25 
carriers per month into the program in the first 4 months. Even at the 
height of the program, the Department expects a maximum of 500 to 600 
trucks to participate, compared to the millions of domestic and 
Canadian trucks that currently operate on our roads.

I have heard the claim has been made that there are no site-specific 
plans for each point of entry to ensure compliance with new 
verification and inspection standards. The Department of Transportation 
did, in fact, develop site-specific plans for all 25 commercial 
crossings in full coordination with Customs and Border Protection, and 
other relevant agencies, although they did not finish them in time for 
the inspector general's data collection.

Furthermore, the inspector general raised concerns about training of 
State enforcement officials. Of course, any time a new policy is 
enacted, there will be challenges as personnel become accustomed to the 
new rules. That is why the Department has conducted and will continue 
to conduct rigorous training with State enforcement officials. And it 
is important we not look to training as a one-shot deal. Many of the 
lessons on how best to ensure the safety of trucks entering this 
country will be learned on the ground.

I believe that instead of trying to kill this program, which will 
violate the treaty obligations of the United States of America as 
interpreted by the U.S. Supreme Court and international arbitration 
panels, we in the Congress have a duty to find workable solutions that 
ensure as much as humanly possible the safety of trucks on our roads 
and make sure, whether they be American trucks or Mexican trucks or 
Canadian trucks, that they are all held to the same high standard.

My amendment will do this, and I urge my colleagues to support it.

Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of our time, and I yield the 
floor.