# MARINE CORPS CORPORAL STEVEN P. GILL POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `fe4608bd0ac0d05850051866c097a395`
`Mr. ISSA — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3974.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge passage of this bill to designate 
the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 797 Sam 
Bass Road in Round Rock, Texas, as the ''Marine Corps Corporal Steven 
P. Gill Post Office Building'' in honor of the late Marine Corporal 
Steven P. Gill, a 24 year old Marine Corps reservist killed near 
Zaidon, Iraq by an IED on July 21, 2005.

A native of Round Rock, Corporal Gill was not only a model soldier, 
but also a model citizen.

After graduating from Westwood High School in 1999, he enrolled in 
Concordia University. Corporal Gill planned to enter the seminary, but 
his work with children and church youth groups inspired him to pursue a 
life as a youth minister.

Then, on September 11, 2001, his life, like so many other American's, 
changed dramatically. In the words of his father, Bill Gill, ''When he 
saw those towers crashing, he had to do something.''

Convinced by his father to finish the semester, Corporal Gill 
enlisted in the Marines in January, 2002, later assigned to the 4th 
Marine Division, 4th Reconnaissance Battalion, based in San Antonio, 
the same unit his father served in years ago.

Corporal Gill is a shining example of an individual who continually 
and selflessly served those around him, both through his work for his 
community and his country. His spirit lives on through the work of his 
mother, Rose Gill, who, despite losing her job in wake of his death, 
continues to promote the Marines and the sacrifice of her son.

Three months after his death she ran in the Marine Corps Marathon and 
has run in his honor every year since, raising money for wounded 
soldiers.

''He knew the sacrifice he might be called to make, and he accepted 
that,'' his father said. I urge you to honor that sacrifice and the 
amazing life of this genuine American hero.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.