---
---

# NATIONAL BRAIN INJURY AWARENESS MONTH
## `fe4b6382bac6674e76a164dfe16944da`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 23 March 2009`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend from Massachusetts, 
and my good friend Todd Platts who is the co-chair of the Traumatic 
Brain Injury Task Force.

Mr. Speaker, I learned about this injury about 10 years ago when I 
was approached by one of my constituents, Dennis Benigno, whose son was 
struck by a car, leaving him with severe cognitive and physical 
disabilities.

In response, former Congressman Jim Greenwood from Pennsylvania and I 
formed the Congressional Brain Injury Task Force to further education 
and awareness of brain injuries and support funding for brain injury 
research. There wasn't too much at that time. In fact, most of the 
Members of Congress didn't know about the seriousness of the injury and 
how 1.5 million Americans are affected every year.

I think people often wonder why we spend so much time talking about 
brain injury. Unfortunately, it took the war to crystallize what this 
entire issue is all about.

Someone in America suffers a traumatic brain injury every 21 seconds. 
At least 1.5 million Americans sustain this injury, as I mentioned. 
That is more than breast cancer, HIV, multiple sclerosis, and spinal 
cord injuries combined. Of those, 50,000 will die every year. An 
estimated 3.22 million Americans are currently living with a long-term 
disability because of TBI. As many as 20 percent of the 1.8 million 
deployed troops in Afghanistan and Iraq, that is 360,000 soldiers, have 
sustained TBIs in Iraq and Afghanistan. That is an astonishing figure.

TBI is one of the rare afflictions that is widespread among both the 
civilian population and among our soldiers. There has been a weakness 
in the Defense health care system, and many injured soldiers weren't 
receiving the level of care that they deserved. The military has made 
great strides in the last several years to better prevent, identify, 
and treat brain injuries among our brave men and women in uniform, and 
Congress has been a willing partner in the effort to ensure sustained 
progress on this front.

Mr. Speaker and my good friend from Massachusetts, just today on the 
USA Today front-page review: GI's at Risk By Fitness Practices. Many of 
the soldiers are not fit to go to the battlefield. Many of our football 
players in colleges and in high schools throughout America are not fit 
to go on to the field. If they are not screened, we are doing an 
injustice to the cause.

Accordingly, the Brain Injury Task Force brought together experts 
from all over the world at St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center in 
Paterson, New Jersey, in October for the International Conference on 
Behavioral Health and Traumatic Brain Injury. These experts generated 
recommendations that were presented to the Congress 2 weeks ago.

We cannot forget that, for these Wounded Warriors and their families, 
the war will not end when the last shots are fired. Despite the 
staggering statistics and heart-shattering stories that come to us from 
Iraq and Afghanistan, public awareness continues to lag and TBI remains 
a silent epidemic plaguing our Nation.

Traumatic brain injury can strike anyone and leave devastating 
results. We probably all know someone or know the story of someone 
whose life was irreversibly changed because of a brain injury. Just 
last week we saw a flurry of media accounts of the tragic death of 
actress Natasha Richardson, who sustained a brain injury while skiing. 
If that tragedy taught us anything, it is that, as far as science has 
come, we still know relatively little about this pervasive injury.

The Congressional Brain Injury Task Force continues to seek increased 
funding for the programs authorized by the Traumatic Brain Injury Act, 
after an unprecedented amount of congressional support in these recent 
years.



Designating a month to recognize the prevalence and the seriousness 
of brain injuries among both civilians and military community will 
bring much needed public attention to this frequently forgotten malady.

And I might add, Mr. Speaker, that this Wednesday throughout the day, 
from 10 in the morning until 2 in the afternoon, in the Rayburn 
building we will have a fair with twice as many displays, close to 50 
displays; and then we will have the leading folks from the military and 
civilian talk about it in the Cannon Building from 3:30 to 4:30, and 
then in the evening a reception. We are bringing the military and 
civilians together in order to help our soldiers and help Americans.

This resolution will honor the families who, day in and day out, care 
for and love their family members who have afflictions, and do so 
without fanfare, without applause.