# WALTER REED MEDICAL CENTER
## `fe5164974fcdab4c01c70bc69887fea9`
`Ms. NORTON — 7 March 2007`

---


Ms. NORTON. I thank you, Representative Green. I particularly thank 
you for opening up this special hour in a way that offers perspective, 
historical perspective about why the treatment of our solders and 
veterans mean so much to us.

What you have done is to take us through the highlights of their 
history, which is our history, so that I think we come to grips with 
why the urgency that has been revealed at Walter Reed and now 
increasingly at other veterans hospitals and military hospitals must be 
addressed right away.

Mr. Green, to my left there is a rendition of remarks among hundreds 
of thousands now sent to the Washington Post and to Members of Congress 
once the Walter Reed revelations came forward in the Washington Post. 
And what is important about the remarks to my left is the way that they 
summarize the systemic nature of this problem.

Yes, we are focusing on Walter Reed. It happens to be in my district. 
Would that we could fix the problems that have come to light by dealing 
with this one great hospital; and this is far and away the greatest 
military hospital in the United States, most would say in the country. 
It is where we send our most injured soldiers. If you have been very 
seriously injured, you go to Walter Reed. It is considered the crown 
jewel of military hospitals.

Why, then, are we hearing from Fort Campbell, Kentucky? In a moment I 
want to know about your district, Mr. Green, but why are we hearing 
from Fort Campbell, Kentucky, words that also put us to shame? And the 
words are right there for you to say. We are quoting the words that 
have come forward, this time to the Washington Post. There were yellow 
signs on the door stating, ''Our barracks had asbestos.'' How would you 
feel if you came home from Iraq or Afghanistan to find that kind of 
sign on the barracks to which you had been committed after leaving the 
hospital?

Mr. Green made a point about in-hospital care. So far as we have been 
able to tell, at least in the military hospitals, a standard. You will 
have to speak to the veterans hospitals. But nobody doubts that there 
is no better place for our soldiers to be, particularly if you are 
seriously wounded, than Walter Reed Hospital.



But you get out of Walter Reed and you find the functional equivalent 
of what we learned about Fort Campbell, Kentucky. There may not be a 
sign on the door, but the signs were everywhere to see. They were there 
in the now notorious building 18 where the whole roof now has to be 
changed, the mold and the rats and the roaches. What those are signs 
are, are of neglect of these soldiers once they left the hospital.

But in a real sense, I think my good colleagues and brother will 
agree with me that it is when you get out of the hospital that you may 
be most depressed. You may have lost an arm or a leg or an eye, or you 
have lost part of your mental capacity. Now you have to come to grips 
with the real world. It is in those barracks, barracks like those 
described at Fort Campbell that soldiers have lost their way because we 
have lost ours.

Or let's take Fort Irwin in California. Here I am quoting again the 
Washington Post, March 5 of this year:

''Most of us,'' writes this soldier, ''have had to sign waivers where 
we understand that the housing we were in failed to meet government 
standards.''

My colleague will, I think, agree with me that our soldiers expected 
to be in substandard tents in Iraq and Afghanistan but not in the 
United States of America after being wounded and being sent back home.

Even though we had hearings in the Government Reform Committee 2 
years ago speaking to the outpatient care and were assured by some of 
the same brass that appeared before us at the Walter Reed Hospital 
hearing just a couple of days ago, we find, courtesy of the Washington 
Post no less, not a hearing, but a real expose that things are as bad 
or worse than we expected.