---
---

# HONORING BROWNIE SCOUT TROOP 114
## `fe76da4d20e0fb31caaf87667c829db2`
`Ms. FOXX — 17 April 2007`

---


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the patriotic efforts of 
Brownie Scout Troop 114 of Liberty Grove Baptist Church. This group of 
18 young women has demonstrated a tangible commitment to supporting our 
troops stationed in Iraq. Last month they collected donations to send 
nearly 250 boxes of Girl Scout cookies to the brave men and women from 
their community who are serving in Iraq.

They pounded the pavement to sell cookies and find like-minded people 
who were willing to join them in sending cookies to a local North 
Carolina National Guard unit stationed near Tikrit, Iraq. I applaud the 
thoughtful and committed patriotism of these girls who invested their 
time to selflessly raise money and then send a token of appreciation to 
our Nation's troops.

The troops that are receiving the famous Girl Scout cookies are 
members of the headquarters 105th Engineer Group from Winston-Salem. 
For these men and women, there is no small act of kindness. No, this is 
much more than that. For our troops on the front line of the war on 
terror, to receive a package of cookies from a local Brownie Scout 
troop is like receiving a breath of fresh air from home. Whether or not 
these young women knew it, they were communicating to our soldiers that 
there are people who still care for our troops' welfare. They 
communicated that the youngest generation still values sacrifice and 
service to country.

I come to the floor today to celebrate this concentrated act of 
patriotic kindness and to honor the young ladies who have taken 
ownership of our Nation's great tradition of offering support to our 
troops serving abroad. Their example highlights what our great Nation 
is capable of producing in its youth.

We cannot emphasize enough how proud we are that these Scouts made 
this effort to brighten the days of hundreds of soldiers in Iraq. What 
may seem like a small token of gratitude will live on in the memory of 
the many troops who, in the coming weeks, will enjoy a box of Girl 
Scout cookies in the deserts of Iraq. I have no doubt that these men 
and women will look back with great fondness as they remember the day 
when the mail call brought them an unexpected box of sweets and a 
reminder that their community and their country stands behind them in 
this difficult time.

The members of the Brownie troop who sent this gift of baked goods 
are Alexandra Dillard, Reva Combs, Laken Harrold, Allison Livengood, 
Allie Barker, Lauren Johnson, Daniella Meeza, Kristina Meeza, Acacia 
Key, Charlotte York, Cheyenne Byrd, Alexis Baldwin, Erin McGee, Angela 
Nardini, Karlie Cranfill, Caitlyn Minton and Hope Brown.

It is my hope that their example is reproduced by many others, and 
that the soldiers who receive the fruit of their labors feel honored 
and respected by this act of young-hearted kindness.
