---
---

# FIND WAYS TO COME TOGETHER ON IRAQ
## `fe82bddd389949e34238ea722bc2721d`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. Mr. Speaker, tonight we do something different. Tonight 
we may do something that may even be unprecedented. Tonight I am joined 
on the floor of the House by my distinguished gentleman and my partner 
from Long Island, the gentleman from New York (Mr. Bishop) and we will 
be joined by the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Dent) and the 
gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. Shays) and the gentleman from Maryland 
(Mr. Gilchrest) and perhaps others.

Tonight, for the first time that I know of, Republicans and Democrats 
take to the floor of the House to discuss Iraq, but not to criticize 
one another about Iraq, not to beat each other up about Iraq, not to 
cast aspersions and blame about Iraq, not to talk about what divides us 
on Iraq, but to find ways to come together on Iraq.

I don't think that's happened before on this floor, but I do believe 
that the American people have an unquenchable thirst for Democrats and 
Republicans not to take the time of this Congress for sloganeering and 
name calling and the impugning of motives, but to take the time of this 
Congress to have an intellectual debate over those issues, to take the 
time of Congress to really honor those troops and our veterans, and to 
discuss not what is left and what is right, but to discuss the way 
forward.

The gentleman from New York knows that every time the people from our 
districts and the American people tune into C-SPAN, what they see are 
Republicans and Democrats arguing and fighting and criticizing, 
attacking each other's ideas, impugning each other's patriotism, 
impugning each other's motives. Tonight is different, because we are 
not going to discuss what separates us and divides us, but we are going 
to discuss what, in fact, can unite us.

War in Iraq has caused an outbreak of war on floor of the House of 
Representatives, and tonight we declare a ceasefire. For me, this is 
not just a professional obligation, but, for me, it is personal, for 
two reasons.

The first is that several days ago I made a phone call to the father 
of Matthew Baylis. He was killed in Iraq last week. It was small arms 
fire in Baghdad. I have no idea whether Matthew Baylis or Matthew 
Baylis himself was a Democrat or a Republican or an independent or 
perhaps not registered to vote.



I don't care. I do believe that Matthew Baylis would want Republicans 
and Democrats to come together to talk about the way forward; that 
Matthew Baylis and those like him, who died in the service of his 
country, would want us to spend more of our time talking about moving 
our country forward than moving our country to the left or the right.

And the second reason that this is personal for me, Mr. Speaker, is 
because it's being organized by the House Center Aisle Caucus, which is 
a bipartisan group of 50 Democrats and Republicans who have come 
together, based on certain propositions. The first proposition is, we 
can disagree agreeably; that we can state our differences without 
calling each other names; that we can debate the issues without having 
this Chamber sound like a fourth grade elementary school auditorium 
that's run amok.

And the other premise of the Center Aisle Caucus, Mr. Speaker, is 
that Democrats and Republicans will disagree on perhaps as much as 70 
percent of the issues, which means we have a fundamental obligation to 
agree on the 30 percent that's left.

The problem is that even when we agree we haven't moved forward, 
because we've allowed our disagreements to paralyze areas where we, in 
fact, have consensus. And so the Center Aisle Caucus, which was 
sponsored, actually which was founded by the gentleman from Illinois, 
Congressman Tim Johnson, and me and the gentlewoman from Missouri, 
Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson, and the gentleman from Kansas (Mr. 
Moore), the Center Aisle Caucus has been meeting on an ongoing basis to 
find areas of agreement. We recently met with the ambassador from Iraq 
to the United States, and he gave us some ideas.

Before I yield time to my friend from New York, I just want to focus 
on some of the principles that we do agree on.

If you would listen to the debate here on the floor of the House of 
Representatives, Mr. Speaker, you would think that there are actually 
Members of Congress who want us to lose in Iraq. There's not a single 
Member of Congress who wants us to lose in Iraq.

If you listen to the debate on the floor of the House, Mr. Speaker, 
you would think that there are actually Members of Congress who do not 
care about the lives lost in Iraq. There is not a single Member of 
Congress who has a callous disregard for the lives lost in Iraq.

You would think that there are two types of Members of Congress, 
either Members of Congress who want defeat or Members of Congress who 
want to be in Iraq forever. I don't know of a single Member of Congress 
who supports either option.

The fact of the matter is we are not the enemies, Democrats and 
Republicans. Americans aren't the enemies. The enemies are the people 
that we're fighting, and we need to focus on this.

And the Center Aisle Caucus has gathered and has endorsed several 
principles that we're going to discuss tonight, and I'll run through 
them quickly and then yield my time to the gentleman from New York.

Here are the shared principles that Democrats and Republicans who are 
interested in finding common ground have articulated:

Number one, we support our Armed Forces. We want to make sure they 
have adequate force protection. We want to make sure they have 
everything they need to keep them safe and keep them sound, and we want 
to bring them home as fast as possible.



Number two, we want to take care of our veterans. And I am so proud 
to announce on this floor tonight that earlier today the Appropriations 
Committee, which I have the privilege of serving on, unanimously, 
Republicans and Democrats, Democrats and Republicans, passed a $109.2 
billion package that addresses the critical health care and housing 
needs for our veterans. $18 billion above last year's level and $4 
billion more than the President requested, and I hope that he will not 
veto that bill.

Our bill includes $87.7 billion in crucial funding for the Department 
of Veterans Affairs, which is a $6.7 billion increase in discretionary 
funding over last year's level. That is the largest single increase in 
the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration.

Our bill addresses the backlog in claims by adding 1,000 new claims 
processors, and that's going to help veterans who now wait an average 
of 177 days for the benefits they deserve. I am very proud that 
Democrats and Republicans today in the Appropriations Committee voted 
to take care of our veterans.

We agree that we need to secure Iraq's borders because there are too 
many reports that Syria and Iran are sending fighters and equipment and 
technology over those borders to make the situation in Iraq even worse, 
not resisting Iraq's sovereignty, and threatening our troops and Iraqi 
civilians.

We agree that we need to stand up Iraqi security forces because we 
cannot be there for a prolonged period of time. I would imagine that we 
all agree that we've all been there too long already, and so we need to 
find ways to stand up Iraq security forces, and we're going to discuss 
that tonight.

We agree that there's a need for regional change. We agree that the 
Middle East is a very dangerous place in the world, and we need to 
transform it, using all the tools in our toolbox, from a place where 
children are taught how to blow things up to a place where children are 
taught how to put things together.

We agree that Iran needs to be responsible, and we need to engage 
Iran with the carrot and the stick. And we're pleased that the 
administration, which had resisted having any talks with Iran with 
respect to what is happening in Iraq, in fact, held those talks 
recently.

And, finally, we want to defeat al Qaeda, and we are prepared to use 
all the tools in our toolbox to do that. Because it was al Qaeda in 
Afghanistan that launched the attacks on the United States which killed 
hundreds of Long Islanders, those represented by myself and those 
represented by the distinguished gentleman from Long Island, from New 
York's First Congressional District, Mr. Bishop.

And on that I would be privileged to yield time to my colleague, the 
gentleman from New York.