# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `fea2849ffd70cf9f46fb0c3b107fc697`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. I feel it is time for a change. I cannot in good 
conscience continue to give this President a blank check for this war 
because I know what he is going to do with that money. He is going to 
continue this failed policy with no end in sight. We are going to 
continue to lose 100 or more soldiers every single month until he can 
back out of the exit of this Presidency on January 20, 2009.

I am sorry, but I can no longer be party to financing what I consider 
to be the worst foreign policy mistake in our history. I will support 
Senator Feingold. I will provide the funds for the orderly redeployment 
of our troops to make sure that the terrorists are fought where they 
should be fought and to do what we can to help the Iraqis. But in the 
fifth year of this war, it is time to change.

Now, I listen on the floor of the Senate while many of my colleagues 
want to change the subject. They want to talk about ads and newspapers 
about General Petraeus. Well, let me tell you something. I respect 
General Petraeus. But we have more important things to do than debate 
ads in newspapers. And instead of looking for ways to change the 
subject, we need to join together in a bipartisan fashion to change the 
war. That is why we are here. That is what we will be judged by. And 
the question is whether we will stand up now that we have a choice and 
a vote. Will we march in blind allegiance to a President who has 
brought us to this sad, tragic moment in our history or will we in the 
Senate have the courage, on a bipartisan basis, to stand up for people 
across America, for our soldiers and their families who need a change 
in


policy, need a change in direction, and need to be brought home?

I yield the floor.