# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `fea361063a3b71e13105d8c3b242e3cf`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation to 
provide emergency supplemental appropriations for Fiscal Year 2008. 
This legislation contains funding for our troops, expands education 
benefits for veterans, extends unemployment benefits for workers and 
provides assistance for the victims of the floods in the MidWest.

This bill contains $161.8 billion for DOD funding for our troops to 
fight the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. As the representative of Fort 
Bragg and Pope Air Force Base, I'm pleased that this bill provides $2.2 
billion over the President's request to fully fund military quality of 
life initiatives--including funding for military child care centers, 
military hospitals and VA hospitals. For our returning troops, it 
includes a new GI bill that restores full, 4-year college scholarships 
to veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars to help make them part of 
an economic recovery like the veterans of World War II. This 
legislation also provides up to 13 weeks of extended unemployment 
benefits in every state to workers exhausting the 26 weeks of regular 
unemployment benefits, and provides $2.65 billion for urgent disaster 
relief in response to Midwestern floods and tornadoes.

I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress as well as the 
President and the Administration, to provide a new direction in Iraq 
and to meet the critical needs of the people of North Carolina's Second 
Congressional District.