# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `febff7a4e2f4fab7e481469dab5f9faf`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON â€” 27 March 2007`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. I thank the Chair.

Mr. President, let me say that the distinguished deputy leader on the 
other side said that if the Cochran amendment passes, it will be the 
same strategy, nothing new, nothing changed.

Nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, the President heard 
what the people said in the elections of last year. The President has 
changed the policy. We have confirmed a general to go over there and 
direct a new strategy, which, by all accounts, is beginning to have 
some hope of success.

If we do what is in this bill, by not passing the Cochran amendment, 
it says that the President must commence the phased redeployment of 
U.S. forces from Iraq not later than 120 days after the date of this 
act. That puts a bulls-eye on our troops on the ground. It says we are 
not committed to do what we said we would do, to stand with Iraq to 
have a stable democracy in their country. It says that we are just 
going to leave.

We are not stating any benchmarks; we are not stating any success 
strategies; we are saying 120 days and we are gone. What do you think 
that does to our troops on the ground? What does it say to our allies? 
Most importantly, what does it say to the enemy? It says the greatest 
country in the world is going to be there as long as it is not very 
hard. But when it gets too tough for America, we will leave and we will 
walk out.

That should not be the message of the greatest country on Earth, and 
I hope we will pass the Cochran amendment and do what is right for our 
country for the long term.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.