# OBSERVING THE BIRTHDAY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
## `febf99dcf408da9d801f26139a373391`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 16 January 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
H. Res. 61, and thank my friend from Georgia, John Lewis, for authoring 
this important resolution.

Madam Speaker, yesterday the Nation observed for the 21st time the 
Martin Luther King, Jr., holiday. Each year this day is set aside for 
Americans to celebrate the life and legacy of a man who brought hope 
and healing to America. The Martin Luther King holiday reminds us that 
nothing is impossible when we are guided by the better angels of our 
nature.

Dr. King's inspiring words filled a great void in our Nation, and 
answered our collective longing to become a country that truly lived by 
its noblest principles. Yet, Dr. King knew that it wasn't enough just 
to talk the talk; he knew he had to walk the walk for his words to be 
credible. And so we commemorate on this holiday the man of action, who 
put his life on the line for freedom and justice every day.

We honor the courage of a man who endured harassment, threats and 
beatings, and even bombings. We commemorate the man who went to jail 29 
times to achieve freedom for others, and who knew he would pay the 
ultimate price for his leadership, but kept on marching and protesting 
and organizing anyway.

Dr. King once said that we all have to decide whether we ''will walk 
in the light of creative altruism or the darkness of destructive 
selfishness. Life's most persistent and nagging question, he said, is 
'what are you doing for others?' ''

And when Martin talked about the end of his mortal life in one of his 
last sermons, on February 4, 1968, in the pulpit of Ebenezer Baptist 
Church, even then he lifted up the value of service as the hallmark of 
a full life. ''I'd like somebody to mention on that day Martin Luther 
King, Jr. tried to give his life serving others,'' he said. ''I want 
you to say on that day, that I did try in my life . . . to love and 
serve humanity.


Madam Speaker, during these difficult days when the United States is 
bogged down in a misguided and mismanaged war in Iraq, which has 
claimed the lives of too many of our brave young service men and women, 
we should also remember that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., was, 
above all, a person who was always willing to speak truth to power. 
There is perhaps no better example of Dr. King's moral integrity and 
consistency than his criticism of the Vietnam war being waged by the 
Johnson administration, an administration that was otherwise a friend 
and champion of civil and human rights.

Speaking at the historic Riverside Church in New York City on April 
4, 1967, Dr. King stated:




 I am as deeply concerned about our own troops there as 


 anything else. For it occurs to me that what we are 


 submitting them to in Vietnam is not simply the brutalizing 


 process that goes on in any war where armies face each other 


 and seek to destroy. We are adding cynicism to the process of 


 death, for they must know after a short period there that 


 none of the things we claim to be fighting for are really 


 involved. Before long they must know that their government 


 has sent them into a struggle among Vietnamese, and the more 


 sophisticated surely realize that we are on the side of the 


 wealthy, and the secure, while we create a hell for the poor.



 Somehow this madness must cease. We must stop now. I speak 


 as a child of God and brother to the suffering poor of 


 Vietnam. . . . I speak as a citizen of the world, for the 


 world as it stands aghast at the path we have taken. I speak 


 as one who loves America, to the leaders of our own nation: 


 The great initiative in this war is ours; the initiative to 


 stop it must be ours.


Madam Speaker, these words were spoken by Dr. King 1 year to the day 
before his death. Thus it is that nearly 40 years after his death, Dr. 
King continues to teach us all.

Madam Speaker, the death of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., 
will never overshadow his life. He was both a dreamer and a man of 
action. He leaves a legacy of hope, tempered with peace. It is a legacy 
not quite yet fulfilled.

Madam Speaker, Dr. King's dream of equality under the law will never 
die so long as there are those like us in the Congress, and millions of 
people in this country and around the world, who are willing to 
continue the fight to make it real for all persons.