---
---

# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `fec08fe82d6aa20b27517a363a6d0748`
`Mr. BYRD — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. I thank the Chair, and I thank all Senators.

In 1987, Congress earmarked--hear me--funds for the mapping of the 
human gene. This project became known as the human genome project. This 
research has led to completely new strategies for disease prevention 
and treatment. The human genome project has led to discoveries of 
dramatic new methods of identifying and


treating breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and colon cancer. I will say 
that once more: The human genome project has led to discoveries of 
dramatic new methods of identifying and treating breast, ovarian, and 
colon cancer, saving many, many lives. Senators, hear me: This is not 
wasteful spending.

In 1988 and 1995, Congress earmarked funds for the development of 
unmanned aerial vehicles. I have to say that once more. In 1988 and 
1995, Congress--that is us, your representatives, out there in the 
land, in the hills and valleys of this country--earmarked funds for the 
development of unmanned aerial vehicles. These efforts produced the 
Predator and the Global Hawk, two of the most effective assets that 
have been used in the global war on terror. This is not wasteful 
spending. I am talking about earmarks, the word ''earmarks.'' A lot of 
things have been said about the word ''earmarks.''

Each of these earmarks was initiated by Congress and produced lasting 
gains for the American people--not for me, not for you, but for all of 
us, the American people. In the rush to label earmarks as the source of 
our budgetary woes and amid calls to expand the budgetary authorities 
of the President, Members should remember why deficits have soared to 
unprecedented levels. Senators will recall that the President has not 
exercised his current constitutional authority. The President has not 
submitted a single rescission proposal under the Budget Act. The 
President has signed every regular appropriations bill that has 
produced the unprecedented growth in earmarks. What has wrought these 
ominous budget deficits is the administration's grossly flawed and 
impossible budget assumptions.

The war in Iraq has required the Congress--that is us--to appropriate 
$450 billion--billion, I say, billion dollars; there have been 
approximately 1 billion minutes since Jesus Christ was born; so the war 
in Iraq has required the Congress to appropriate $450 for every minute 
since Jesus Christ was born. I am talking about the war in Iraq. I 
didn't get us into that war. I was against going into Iraq. The war in 
Iraq has required the Congress to appropriate $450 billion of the 
people's money. Only 2 to 3 percent of discretionary funds is 
earmarked. Earmarking is hardly the fiscal wedge driving the deficit. 
Rather than dealing with these fiscal failures, too many would rather 
propagate specious argument that enlarging the President's role in the 
budget process and doing away with congressional earmarks will somehow 
magically reduce these foreboding and menacing deficits. It will not.

There is no question that the earmarking process has grown to 
excessive levels in recent years. From 1994 to 2006, the number of 
earmarks nearly tripled. Between 1956 and 2002--I was here during all 
of those years--Congress passed 20 highway bills that contained a total 
of 739 earmarks. In 2005, the Republican Congress passed and the 
President signed a single highway bill that contained 5,000 earmarks. 
Talk about earmarks. There is no question that the earmarking process 
has run amok. There was a single highway bill that contained 5,000 
earmarks. This kind of excess in earmarking must end. It must go. That 
is why the Appropriations Committee took the lead to add transparency 
and accountability to the process.

In the joint funding resolution for fiscal year 2007, enacted in 
February, we implemented a 1-year moratorium on earmarks for fiscal 
year 2007. In that joint resolution, we eliminated over 9,300 earmarks 
from the fiscal year 2006 bills and reports. No new earmarks were 
contained in the bill for fiscal year 2007. While awaiting final action 
on S. 1, the Appropriations Committee took the lead by establishing 
guidelines for approving earmarks in the fiscal year 2008 bill. The 
Appropriations Committee has reported 11 of the 12 appropriations 
bills. For earmarks contained in the fiscal year 2008 bills and 
reports, the committee reports identify the names of any Member making 
a request or, where appropriate, the President, and the name and 
location of the intended recipient of such earmark.

Let me say that once again. The Appropriations Committee has reported 
11 of the 12 appropriations bills. For earmarks contained in the fiscal 
year 2008 bills and reports, the committee reports identify the name of 
the Member--maybe it is Robert C. Byrd; perhaps it could be the 
distinguished Arlen Specter from Pennsylvania, a great Senator--making 
the request or, where appropriate, the President, Mr. Bush, and the 
name and location of the intended recipient of such earmark.

For each earmark contained in the fiscal year 2008 bills and reports, 
a Member is required to certify in writing that he or she has no 
pecuniary interest in such earmark, consistent with Senate rule XXXVII, 
paragraph 4. Such certifications are available to the people, the 
public. All committee bills and reports, including all of the above 
information, are available to the people, available to the public, on 
the Internet and in printed form prior to floor action, meaning action 
here on this Senate floor.

Through the 11 committee reports, we have identified over 5,700 
earmarks, totaling about $28 billion. Of the $28 billion in earmarks, 
over $23 billion, or over 80 percent of the earmarks, was requested by 
the President. Now, let me say that once again, please. Through the 11 
committee reports, we have identified over 5,700 earmarks, totaling 
about $28 billion. Of the $28 billion in earmarks, over $23 billion, or 
over 80 percent of the earmarks, was requested by the President--the 
President of the United States, President Bush.

The level of nonproject-based earmarks is a substantial reduction 
below the level approved for 2006. We are not hiding these earmarks. We 
are highlighting them for the scrutiny of the American people. We are 
accountable for the decisions in these bills and reports.

The status quo is not satisfactory, and the Appropriations Committee 
has taken the lead in adding transparency and accountability to the 
process. Eliminating waste and abuse in the Federal budget process is 
important. Protecting the character and design of the Constitution is 
essential. Get it, get it, now. Let us not lose our heads--but keep our 
heads on our shoulders--let us not lose our heads, and subsequently the 
safeguards of our rights and liberties as American citizens.

S. 1 strikes the right balance. I urge its adoption.

Madam President, I have a parliamentary inquiry: Section 511 of S. 1 
amends rule XXVIII concerning out-of-scope matter in conference 
reports, and section 521 establishes a new rule XLIV concerning 
congressionally directed spending in all legislation pending before the 
Senate. Specifically, section 521 contains rules concerning new 
congressionally directed spending that might be included in a 
conference report.

Madam President, am I correct that points of order concerning new 
directed spending will be considered pursuant to the new rule XLIV, 
rather than the amended rule XXVIII?