# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `feca4889fb24eac16897b1ab64fe5cc0`
`Mr. HOLT — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chairman Obey for his 
leadership in crafting this bill and bringing it before the House. In 
brief, I wanted to let my colleagues know that the Select Intelligence 
Oversight Panel, which I chair, has been involved in this process. Our 
role has been to ensure that any intelligence programs included for 
funding in this supplemental package have been reviewed for their 
appropriateness and value to our troops in the field.

While the Department of the Defense is focused on Iraq and 
Afghanistan, the professionals in the Intelligence Community are 
focused on threats there and elsewhere around the world. A good 
intelligence system can save lives by preventing war, or, should war 
come, by helping to win the war as quickly as possible. We must ensure 
that the troops in combat get the best real-time intelligence and at 
the same time that policymakers get solid, independent, insightful 
intelligence about countries, trends, and potential conflicts around 
the world. I look forward to providing another update on our work once 
the base DoD appropriations bill is completed later this spring.

Regarding Iraq, I recently returned from a trip to that deeply 
troubled country. American troops are performing superbly in Iraq under 
continually difficult conditions. While in Baghdad, I met with 
soldiers--including those from New Jersey--and told them they deserve 
not just our gratitude, but all of the support they need when they 
return to help them get on with their lives. The situation in Iraq, 
however, is not in the power of our soldiers to control, as events have 
repeatedly shown.

It is impossible to hide the fact that the limited security gains 
achieved since last fall have not been matched by political 
reconciliation on the part of the Iraqis. The uneven performance of the 
Iraqi Security Forces (ISF) during the fighting with the Mahdi Army in 
late March 2008 has called into question the viability of the ISF as a 
national defense and police force, despite our having poured billions 
of dollars into the ISF.

Unfortunately, Iraq's central government continues to lack legitimacy 
in the eyes of its people, as the recent spasms of violence in Basra, 
Baghdad, and elsewhere in the country have clearly shown. No amount of 
American lives and money can erase that legitimacy gap. It is clear 
that the Iraqi government is unwilling or unable to take the steps 
necessary to reach a political settlement that will end the violence, 
and that is why I supported the amendment to this supplemental spending 
bill that would set a start date for our withdrawal from Iraq. It is 
important for us to take decisive action to end our combat involvement 
in Iraq and refocus our efforts on destroying al Qaeda and eliminating 
the conditions that breed international terrorism and refocusing our 
resources on pressing domestic and international needs.

While we continue our efforts to extricate our troops from Iraq, we 
must also prepare to help them once they return home and begin 
transitioning to the civilian world. I strongly support the provision 
in this bill that expands the education benefits veterans receive under 
the GI bill to restore the promise of a full, 4-year college education, 
and make the veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan part of an American 
economic recovery, just like the veterans of World War II were.

This bill also contains provisions to help America's most vulnerable 
citizens survive the current de facto recession our country is 
experiencing. The bill extends unemployment benefits for workers who 
have exhausted their benefits by up to 13 weeks in every State as well 
as an additional 13 weeks in States with high unemployment. Also 
included in this bill is the Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act of 
2008 (H.R. 5613), which places a moratorium on seven Medicaid 
regulations that would cut services to seniors, families, and those 
with disabilities as well as cut payments to safety net providers. 
These are compassionate measures that are fully off-set, and I am glad 
they are in this bill.

However, I can't help but observe, Mr. Speaker, that these needs 
would have been met long ago if our country had not been forced to 
waste billions of dollars on a war of choice that should never have 
been fought. I will continue to do all I can to help end our 
involvement in Iraq and redirect our Nation's priorities and resources 
where they belong--on meeting the needs of our people.