# FAA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `fed5a7b670e25bbeca6f6bf6e3811868`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 6 May 2008`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. Wolfensberger reminds us of the promises made by the 
Senate leadership in 2006 as part of their ''honest leadership and open 
Government'' reform plank. Conference meetings were to be open to the 
public, and members of the conference committee were to have a public 
opportunity to vote on all amendments. Copies of conference reports 
were to be available to Members and posted publicly on the Internet 24 
hours before consideration. Bills were to be developed following full 
hearings and open subcommittee and committee markups and were to come 
to the floor under procedures that allow open, full, and fair debate.

These practices have been followed in some cases. I mentioned the 
farm bill already as an example of a conference committee in action. 
But procedures governing the conference process and the markup process 
are only relevant if there actually is a conference committee or there 
actually is a committee markup.

As noted in Mr. Wolfensberger's article, the number of instances in 
which major legislation has been dealt with outside the conference 
process has increased markedly in this Congress. The supplemental 
appears destined to become another example. I gather that we are to 
receive the bill from the House in the form of three amendments to a 
dormant version of the fiscal year 2008 Military Construction 
appropriations bill. As I have already noted, it is not certain whether 
the Senate Appropriations Committee will act on some, all, or none of 
these amendments or whether the leader intends for there to be an 
opportunity for Senators to offer amendments on the floor. A conference 
committee appears out of the question.

It is not easy to be the Speaker of the House or the majority leader 
of the Senate. Individuals elected to those positions are subjected to 
enormous pressures. They are besieged constantly by colleagues, 
constituents, and outside interests with an array of often conflicting 
demands. In an effort to resolve those competing demands, it is


tempting to centralize decisionmaking, construct processes that 
minimize uncertainty, and generally try to eliminate the untidiness of 
the legislative process.

A handful of Members and staff are empowered at the expense of the 
rank and file in both bodies and, by extension, the people whom the 
rank and file represent. On occasion, such tactics are successful. But 
over time, these practices tend to become abusive and often result in a 
messier, more protracted process than would have been the case if more 
traditional procedures had been followed.

For the sake of our men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan, I hope the 
process the majority has chosen for the supplemental does not put us 
any further behind than we already are. But in the 2 weeks since I last 
came to the floor to speak about the supplemental, little has occurred 
to inspire such hope.

Our men and women in the field are waiting. We do need to finish this 
bill by the Memorial Day recess. It is a big deal.
















 Exhibit 1











[From Roll Call, Apr. 28, 2008]





Have House-Senate Conferences Gone the Way of the Dodo?













 (By Don Wolfensberger)




 In June 2006, House and Senate Democratic leaders rolled 


 out their ''New Direction for America,'' a campaign platform 


 to take back control of Congress. The ''Honest Leadership and 


 Open Government'' reform plank, at Page 22, included the 


 promise to require that ''all [House-Senate] conference 


 committee meetings be open to the public and that members of 


 the conference committee have a public opportunity to vote on 


 all amendments [in disagreement between the two houses].'' 


 Moreover, copies of conference reports would be posted ''on 


 the Internet 24 hours before consideration (unless waived by 


 a supermajority vote).''



 The minority Democrats' justifiable complaint was that 


 majority Republicans often shut them out of conference 


 committee deliberations after a single, perfunctory public 


 meeting was held to minimally satisfy House rules (aka ''the 


 photo op''). After that meeting, all that is necessary to 


 file a conference report is the signatures of a majority of 


 conferees from each house. No formal meeting or votes on 


 final approval are required; nor does the majority even need 


 to consult the minority before finalizing an agreement.



 Once they took over Congress in January 2007, House 


 Democrats abandoned their promises of public votes in 


 conference meetings on amendments in disagreement and of 24-


 hour advance Internet availability of conference reports. 


 Nevertheless, they did adopt some palliative House rules 


 changes on the opening day of the 110th Congress that at 


 least appear to move conference committees in the direction 


 of a more deliberative and participatory public process.



 The new rules require: (a) that all conferees be given 


 notice of any conference meeting for the resolution of 


 differences between the houses ''and a reasonable opportunity 


 to attend''; (b) that all provisions in disagreement be 


 ''considered as open to discussion at any meeting''; (c) that 


 all conferees be provided ''a unitary time and place with 


 access to at least one complete copy of the final conference 


 agreement for the purpose of recording their approval (or 


 not)'' by affixing their signatures; and (d) that no 


 substantive change in the agreement be made after conferees 


 have signed it.



 The Parliamentarian's footnotes to the rules for conference 


 reports indicate that the rules are not enforceable if all 


 points of order are waived against the reports, as is 


 routinely done by a special rule from the Rules Committee. 


 Nevertheless, conference committee chairmen (or vice 


 chairmen) could still be punished by the House adopting a 


 question of privilege resolution for willful disregard of 


 these modest requirements. This is because a blanket waiver 


 of the rules only protects the conference report. It is not a 


 retroactive pardon for malfeasance in the management of the 


 conference.



 Unfortunately, these well-intentioned new rules have no 


 relevance when the bicameral majority leadership decides to 


 bypass going to conference altogether, and instead negotiates 


 final agreements behind closed doors. And this is happening 


 with increasing frequency, sometimes even over the 


 public protests of committee chairmen who have been 


 excluded from leadership negotiations.



 To determine just how serious the practice of bypassing 


 conferences has become, I compared action on major bills 


 through March of the second session in both this Democratic 


 110th Congress and the preceding Republican-controlled 109th. 


 (A major bill is defined here as one originally considered 


 under a special rule in the House.)



 Of major bills approved by the House and Senate that 


 required some action to resolve differences between the two 


 versions, 11 out of 19 (58 percent) were settled by 


 conferences in the current Congress compared with 18 out of 


 19 (95 percent) in the previous Congress.



 Put another way, the current 110th Congress has been 


 negotiating eight times as many bills as the 109th Congress 


 outside the conference process. This is done by using the 


 ''pingpong'' approach of bouncing amendments between the 


 houses until a final agreement is achieved.



 Among the major bills in this Congress that have bypassed 


 conference consideration are the energy independence bill, 


 State Children's Health Insurance Program, Iraq-Katrina 


 supplemental appropriations, terrorism insurance, the 


 consolidated appropriations act and the tax rebate/stimulus 


 legislation.



 While the conference bypass approach is just as legitimate 


 under the rules as going to conference (and sometimes 


 advisable when there are only minor differences to iron out), 


 the procedure is more suspect when used on major bills on 


 which numerous substantive disagreements exist between the 


 houses. That is when House and Senate leaders are more likely 


 to directly intervene, rendering committee chairmen less 


 relevant to the process.



 Senate minority Republicans are not entirely blameless in 


 this development. At times they have brought pressures to 


 avoid conferences, under threat of filibuster, in order to 


 better ensure the retention of provisions in which they have 


 a vested interest. However, House and Senate Democratic 


 leaders have been just as culpable in wanting to skip 


 conferences to produce outcomes most beneficial to their 


 party.



 While it is too early to declare House-Senate conferences 


 as extinct as the dodo, it is not too early to move them onto 


 the parliamentary endangered-species list. It is one more 


 sign of the decline of the committee system and its 


 attributes of deliberation and expertise. It is especially 


 troubling because the lack of conference deliberations shuts 


 out majority and minority Members alike from having a final 


 say on important policy decisions. Party governance must be 


 better balanced against participatory lawmaking. Both parties 


 need to recognize this.
