---
---

# CONGRATULATING THE ARMY RESERVE ON ITS CENTENNIAL
## `feee1f6af74bd2cc48e484b0e71c9986`
`Mr. BUYER — 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. BUYER. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of House Joint 
Resolution 70. The Centennial of the Army Reserves marks our proud 
heritage of citizen soldiers who have always answered the call to duty 
with honor and pride. I want to thank my colleagues Mr. Bishop, Mr. 
Taylor, and Mr. Shimkus for their leadership on this resolution. As an 
original cosponsor of this resolution and as a co-chair of the National 
Guard and Reserve Components Caucus, I'm very pleased that 260 of my 
colleagues from both sides of the aisle recognize the crucial impact 
the members of the Army Reserve have had on this great Nation 
throughout its 100-year history.

Over my 28 years of service as a member of the Army Reserve, I have 
had the good fortune to see firsthand the actions of the men and women 
of this fine organization--they are the virtual bedrock of our Nation. 
I've seen the dedication of these Citizen-Soldiers operating across the 
United States; in the Netherlands, Belgium, and Germany; during 
Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm in Kuwait and surrounding 
countries; and in the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Regardless of the operating environment or the personal sacrifice 
required, these great Americans have responded again and again to our 
Nation's call. From the initial call-up of the Army Reserve to run down 
the bandit ''Pancho'' Villa, through bloody battles in World Wars I and 
II, to the wars in the Persian Gulf, they have always answered the 
Nation's call in its time of need, riding toward the sound of the guns, 
around the world, without hesitation.

Today's Army Reserve can no longer be characterized as a strategic 
reserve; it is an operational force called upon to be at the forefront 
of our Nation's warfighting capability. Of the 180,000 officers and 
enlisted soldiers serving in today's Army Reserve, nearly 3,000 are 
Hoosiers. I'm extremely proud of these men and women and the sacrifices 
that they make every day to keep our Nation free and safe.

Lieutenant General Jack Stultz, the Chief of the United States Army 
Reserve, recently said, ''Our Citizen-Soldiers depend on their 
families, friends, civilian employers, and community to help them 
balance their responsibilities and commitments.'' And so, to those who 
support our federal Citizen-Soldiers, I offer my heartfelt thanks and 
congratulations for helping make this centennial possible. And to the 
families and loved ones of the 156 soldiers of the Army Reserve who 
have borne the ultimate sacrifice in support of Operations Enduring 
Freedom and Iraqi Freedom, including the family of Staff Sergeant Keith 
Maupin whose body was indentified only days ago after being classified 
as missing-captured for nearly 4 years, I offer my deepest thanks and 
respect for your sacrifice. And to the family of Sergeant Ahmed Altaie, 
who is still listed as missing-captured after 16 months, I offer my 
continued hope and prayers.

At any given time, more than 20,000 Army Reserve Soldiers are 
deployed to no fewer than 18 countries around the world. Their efforts 
ensure that America's vital national security interests are fulfilled 
and that our homeland is protected. I am proud to be counted among 
their ranks.

These Soldiers and their loved ones shoulder a greater share of our 
burden than at any time in our Nation's history. This resolution 
represents an opportunity for Congress to recognize the incredible 
history of service, sacrifice, and accomplishment of those Soldiers who 
have served in the Army Reserve since its inception. Please join me in 
celebrating that heritage and recognizing their proud history by 
supporting this resolution.
