---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--VETO
## `fef196971fd7510ebdbe8f2cc6b09c08`
`Mr. DURBIN — 7 November 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. I rise today supporting the override of the President's 
veto of the Water Resources Development Act, known as the WRDA bill. We 
have waited for this bill for a long time. Senator Boxer of California 
and Senator Inhofe of Oklahoma worked so hard on it; 7 years it took us 
to put this bill together. It is a bill which should be passed on a 
regular basis because the needs of our country are recurring. They did 
a great job in putting this bill together. The conference passed it 
with an overwhelming vote within 7 months after the session began.

After 7 years of toil and 7 months hard work to put the bill 
together, it authorizes navigation, ecosystem restoration, and flood 
and storm damage reduction projects all over America. The projects in 
this bill are important for all of our Nation and represent benefits to 
rural and urban areas as well.

In Chicago, for example, residents will see enormous benefits from 
the Thornton and McCook Reservoirs projects in this bill. These 
reservoirs are currently under construction, but until they are 
completed, significant areas in that part of the country will remain 
unprotected from major floods. I know what I am speaking of. It has not 
been that long ago--only a few weeks--that I was in the suburbs 
watching them as they packed the sandbags and turned the pumps on in 
the basements and found ways to avoid the floodwater damage that was 
afflicting most of our area in the northern suburbs, in the northwest 
suburbs.

These reservoirs, when completed, will provide some protection. 
Without them, millions of homeowners are going to be exposed to 
flooding. There is another element. It is not just the damage to the 
communities, it is not just the interruption of commerce, it is not the 
water-soaked basement and all of the stuff that has to be thrown away, 
it is not just the expense of buying a pump to try to clear out our 
home; it is also the fact that when we run into this flooding situation 
we have sewer backups that discharge raw sewage into Lake Michigan. 
That is unacceptable. It is the sort of thing every community along the 
lake has to take seriously.

How does a community come up with the resources to deal with that so 
the storm drains do not overflow? Well, it


is hard for them to come up with the resources by themselves. But with 
Federal assistance it is possible.

Critics of this kind of approach say it is porkbarrel, more earmarks 
and Federal spending and, you know, these Senators, they are trying to 
put more money in their States for political reasons. Well, the fact 
is, this is Federal money earmarked for projects to avoid flooding, to 
protect homes, to protect neighborhoods, and to protect great national 
treasures such as Lake Michigan.

The reservoirs not only will help stop sewage overflows, but they are 
going to save homeowners money. Almost 75 percent of the residential 
lots in South Holland, IL, are now in a floodplain. That will be 
removed when the Thornton projects are complete. Completing these 
projects will save the homeowners in South Holland $713,000 in annual 
insurance premiums.

A lot of those homeowners are struggling with property taxes now and 
getting a break on flood insurance is certainly good news. This is just 
one of the many examples of how the WRDA bill will save homeowners real 
dollars and protect their homes.

Another important feature of the bill for Illinois is increased lock 
capacity and improvements to the ecosystem of the Upper Mississippi and 
Illinois Rivers. The Mississippi River, of course, is a beautiful 
river, and father of all waters, and has many claims to historic and 
natural significance. But it also is an important avenue of commerce. 
This is the backbone of the waterway system of America. It transports 
$12 billion worth of products each year, including over 1 billion 
bushels of grain to ports around the world. This efficient river 
transportation is vital to Illinois. Shipping by barge is inexpensive 
and helps keep our ports competitive. That is good for producers and 
good for consumers all over the world.

More than half of the Illinois annual corn crop and 75 percent of all 
U.S. soybean exports travel along the Upper Mississippi and Illinois 
Rivers. Shipping by barge is not only cost effective, but it has real 
environmental benefits. Barges operate at 10 percent of the cost of 
trucks, 40 percent of the cost of trains, they release far less carbon 
monoxide, nitrous oxide, and hydrocarbons, and barges use much less 
fuel to operate.

But the system of locks and dams along the Upper Mississippi that 
make travel possible is in desperate need of modernization. The current 
system was built 70 years ago and it needs to be repaired. Many of the 
older locks are only 600 feet in length. Most of the current barges are 
twice that length. That means these goods take twice as long to go down 
the river into the marketplace.

The override veto before us today will authorize $2.2 billion for 
replacing and upgrading locks and dams, and--this is a critical part of 
it--$1.7 billion for ecosystem restoration along the river.

We struck an agreement between those who want to use the river for 
commerce, and those who value it as a natural resource. We said, if we 
improve the locks and dams, we will put a comparable amount of money, 
$1.7 billion, into restoring the river, the ecosystem of the 
Mississippi River. So I think that is a fairminded, balanced approach 
to what our Nation needs.

As we have seen in the tragedy that occurred along Minnesota's 35-W 
bridge, our country's infrastructure is aging and overburdened. The 
projects included in this bill are desperately needed to shore up our 
waterway system, a vital component of our national infrastructure.

Unfortunately, the President vetoed this bill last Friday. After 
years of trying to put this bill together, this President discovered 
his veto pen this year and decided he would start vetoing bills one 
after the other. This is the latest casualty. The WRDA veto override 
was passed by the House yesterday with an overwhelming vote, 361 to 54.

When the Senate originally considered the bill earlier this year, 
there were only five Senators who voted against it. In less than 1 week 
this Congress has come together to send the President a strong message 
that his fiscal priorities are misplaced and misguided. I do not 
understand how this President can ask us for $196 billion to rebuild 
Iraq, and we ask for $23 billion to put into rebuilding America's 
waterways, protecting the levees that could flood communities and doing 
things that are critical for our future, and the President says it is 
wasteful spending--wasteful if it is spent in America, not wasteful if 
it is spent in Iraq?


I fear the President gets up every morning in the White House and 
looks out the window and all he sees is Iraq. If he looked out that 
window, he would see America is out here too. It needs investment. A 
strong America begins at home. The Water Resources Development Act will 
build the infrastructure which will build the economy, creating good 
business, good-paying jobs, construction jobs that cannot be 
outsourced, jobs that will be filled by Americans getting decent wages 
and good benefits, taking them home to their families, building up the 
neighborhoods and communities that are the backbone of this great 
Nation.

The President does not see that. Oh, he can see $196 billion for 
Iraq. He cannot see $23 billion for America. I think he is wrong. By 
the vote yesterday in the House of Representatives, overwhelmingly they 
told him he was wrong. I hope we reach the same conclusion when this 
matter comes before us tomorrow. What was intended to be reauthorized 
every 2 years is now 5 years too late.

If we follow the President's lead, we will postpone this again, we 
will see locks and dams continue to deteriorate, bridges continue to 
fail, and people wondering why in the world this great Nation of 
America is not making certain its infrastructure and backbone are 
strong enough to sustain economic growth.

It is time the President stopped using his veto pen for essential 
projects, programs like those in this bill, and in the appropriations 
bills that will be sent his way. I encourage all of my colleagues to 
support this bill to override the President's veto.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.