---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `feffd41485555ad003f77ff46f105a49`
`Ms. DeGETTE — 15 May 2008`

---


Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the amendment to be 
voted on today which will provide another blank check for the war in 
Iraq:

I remain steadfast in my opposition to the Iraq war and its continued 
funding. Tens of thousands of our bravest sons and daughters have been 
wounded and over 4 thousand killed. We have spent hundreds of billions 
of dollars on this war, which has necessarily meant we have had fewer 
resources to deal with significant problems here at home.

Our continued military involvement in Iraq only prolongs the tragedy 
this war has been for our country and delays the inevitable time when 
Iraq will have to take responsibility for its own security. While my 
support for our heroic troops is unwavering, it is time to bring them 
home. These views are shared by the vast majority of the American 
people.

I strongly support the other two amendments the House is considering 
today. One amendment would bring needed change to our efforts in Iraq. 
For example, it would require that the redeployment of our troops out 
of Iraq begin within thirty days with a goal of completing that 
redeployment by December 2009. And, it would encourage Iraq to 
contribute towards its own reconstruction.

The other amendment addresses important domestic priorities. Among 
other provisions it would modernize educational benefits for veterans 
and extend unemployment insurance. It also would block devastating 
Medicaid regulations which, if left in place, would reduce access to 
safety-net health care for people


across the country and threaten the ability of certain health care 
providerss, such as Denver Health in my district, to offer vital 
services.

These three amendments on the floor today offer the Members of the 
House of Representatives a stark choice. They can choose to reject the 
views of the American people and blindly follow the misguided policies 
of the Bush Administration. Or, they can choose to end this war. 
support our veterans, and help Americans struggling in these dark 
economic times. History will look most kindly on those who show the 
independent judgment and wisdom that such important decisions require.