# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `ff0221e376b512ca85c306fe6b5f3644`
`Mr. REED — 7 November 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, we are here today at this juncture to talk 
about the point of order raised against combining the MILCON bill and 
the Health and Human Services appropriations bill. There is a large 
point I will try to make, which is that these bills are complementary 
in many real ways. Veterans, for example, do not live alone with other 
veterans. They have families who require education, Pell grants, Head 
Start funds, and all of that is within the purview of the Health and 
Human Services appropriations bill. Also, they are individuals, our 
veterans, who have earned their rights. But I don't believe they 
engaged in battles for this country and wore the uniform of this 
country to get a pension or to get a health benefit; they did it for a 
broader, much larger, much more noble purpose, and that was to build a 
decent and just America. Part of that is making sure children have 
immunizations, making sure children can go to good schools and 
disadvantaged children can enjoy health through the title I program; 
making sure talented young people can go to college with a Pell grant 
or a Stafford loan; the CDC can protect all of us from disease, and the 
NIH can use their resources to research breakthroughs in medicine and 
health care to benefit all of us. It is that vision of a decent, 
humane, and just America that ultimately compelled millions of 
Americans to wear the uniform of this country and defend it.

So the notion that we can arbitrarily or not arbitrarily separate 
these bills, I don't think it accords with one of the major functions 
of all of us as citizens, as soldiers, as Senators--to serve the 
greater good--and we are doing that, I think, with these two 
appropriations bills.

There is another point I think which is interesting to me. These 
bills have passed the Senate overwhelmingly. They would, I think, if 
they were separated, pass overwhelmingly. But it seems to me we are now 
in a situation where we can't combine them because the President has 
said: Don't put them together because I will sign one and veto the 
other, which presents my colleagues in the Senate a very interesting 
situation: After voting for the underlying bills overwhelmingly, do 
they support the President's veto? I hope we can avoid that.

I think we should send these bills together to the President today. 
We can do that. We can expedite the funding of the VA at record levels. 
We can fulfill our obligations to citizens across this country in many 
different ways by supporting this procedural approach of combining the 
bills, voting for the bills, and sending them to the President.

But the premise I think is we will separate them if this point of 
order is sustained, and then we will see the VA bill probably signed 
but then have to come back and negotiate a way for a bill we all 
support--the Health and Human Services bill. I don't think that is the 
right approach. The fastest way to get this legislation, with respect 
to veterans, to the President is to vote against this point of order, 
send it to the President, he can sign it, and next week we can 
celebrate Veterans Day with the largest veterans appropriations bill 
that we have ever passed. I think that is the route we should pursue. I 
don't think we should allow the President to dictate the terms.

One of the interesting things about the President's approach--
particularly as we have talked time and time again about Iraq--is that: 
Well, the Congress can't tell me how to run policy; all they can do is 
fund or not fund the war. Well, here we are making a very bold, very 
assertive statement about funding the Veterans' administration, 
Military Construction, and Health and Human Services. But he says: 
Well, you can't do that. You can't tell me that either because I will 
veto one and I would not accept a package, even though it is a package 
of funding. Again, I think we have to--and we should--assert our will, 
particularly when it comes to the underlying legislation that passed 
this body with extraordinary--extraordinary margins. This would be, I 
think, a different debate if we had taken a bill that was popular and 
combined it with a bill that could not pass this body, or barely pass 
this body. Both of these bills have commanded I think strong support, 
and they should go forward and be signed by the President.

But there is another issue here, too, and it goes back to the initial 
point I made about there is a complementarity between these two bills, 
and it is a very direct and, I believe, powerful one. We have, for 
example, within the Health and Human Services bill, $228 million for 
the Veterans Employment and Training Program. It is in the Department 
of Labor. But if you are a veteran and you are looking for the training 
you need and employment opportunities because you have served your 
country honorably and well--and if we don't pass that Health and Human 
Services bill, that money will not be there. We have in the Department 
of Labor $23.6 million for the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program. 
In fact, I dare say, there is too little attention being paid to 
homeless veterans. There was a report today that one in four homeless 
individuals are veterans of the military. That is a shocking and 
shameful statistic for this country. We have in this bill one of 
several programs--very small, but they help veterans. That is in the 
labor portion of the bill; that is not in the veterans' portion of the 
bill. Funding for the Department of Education, $1.26 billion to impact 
aid payments. Those payments are targeted to school systems that serve 
military installations, large populations not only of veterans, but of 
Active-Duty soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines. So we are saying: 
Great, we are going to give the veterans what they deserve, but for 
those veterans and Active-Duty personnel, we can't vote in this bill 
for $1.26 billion in impact aid. We can't provide their children the 
kind of school systems in adjoining neighborhoods to military posts 
that we think is adequate--not only adequate but we hope excellent.

So these bills are not distinguished in some respects. They serve the 
veteran population and the military population, and to suggest they are 
totally opposed and diametric is, I think, wrong.

In the area of health care funding, we went a long way in the 
Veterans' Administration bill to put significant resources into the 
veterans health care program.

In fact, for the first time, it exceeds the independent budget which 
veterans organizations present to us each year, when it comes to 
veterans health care, the largest increase in veterans health care, the 
largest appropriation we have ever given.

One of the areas we asked them to look at is traumatic brain injury, 
post-traumatic stress. We understand now because of the nature of 
combat and conflict in Afghanistan and Iraq, there


are thousands of young men and women coming back with traumatic brain 
injuries. They did surveys of returning brigades of some of our Army 
units and estimated that perhaps 20 percent of the troops might have 
some indication of traumatic brain injury--slight to moderate. Over 
time, this is an increasingly more difficult problem for the VA system. 
Of course, we have asked them to treat these individuals. But in the 
Health Resources and Service Administration--in the other 
appropriations bill, we have $9.5 million for the traumatic brain 
injury program.

We have billions of dollars for the National Institutes of Health, 
for their research, which will be extremely important if we want to 
understand the phenomenon of traumatic brain injury. Of course, if we 
don't move that bill today, this bill, along with the Veterans' 
Administration bill, at least temporarily we lose these funds.

So I think there is a synergy between the two bills. I think it goes 
back to not just the complementary programs; it goes back to what our 
veterans and our soldiers today are serving for--not self-
aggrandizement, not a pension, or to get the benefits they have earned 
alone but for something bigger. Those men and women are not out there 
putting time in so when they get to be 40 or have 20-plus years of 
military service they get the pension. They are risking their lives so 
this country lives up to its highest ideals. If we cannot provide and 
pass a robust appropriations bill and get it signed by the President on 
Health and Human Services, we are not living up to our obligations and 
our ideals.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.