---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `ff03919c52cac18087e3c6c866b8d718`
`Ms. STABENOW — 19 September 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I wish to thank my colleague from 
Michigan, whom we are so proud of, for all his efforts in supporting 
our troops and leading our efforts as it relates to the defense of our 
country and for once again leading this very important bill on the 
Defense reauthorization.

It is time to put aside for a brief moment the overall debate of the 
war and focus on the troops. Regardless of whether you supported going 
into Iraq or, as I did, voted no on going into that war, we come 
together and we hear frequently from colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle that, of course, we support our troops. We want what is best for 
the brave men and women who are fighting in harm's way, who didn't take 
that vote and didn't decide the policy but who are, in fact, stepping 
up to defend that policy and defend our country.

The question is, What is best for the troops on the ground right now, 
in the middle of these conflicts that have gone on now for over 4/1/2/ 
years? We are here today to talk about what is best for our military, 
our troops, and for their families.

We are not here to debate the merits of the mission. I certainly am 
willing to do that and do that with other amendments. But this 
particular amendment, the amendment of Senator Webb, is an effort to 
determine what makes sense when it comes to deploying our armed 
services, what is best for those who have been willing to put their 
lives on the line for our country, who follow the leadership of the 
Department of Defense and operate under the policies that have been set 
by this Congress and this President.

What is very clear is that the current system is broken for our 
troops. We are forcing our troops into longer and longer combat 
deployments and giving them shorter and shorter rest periods. We are 
demanding multiple combat deployments over very short periods, with 
many units on their second, their third, or even their fourth 
redeployment in the war in Iraq. We are denying the men and women who 
put their lives on the line for America the time they need off from the 
front lines to recuperate, to retrain, to prepare themselves physically 
and mentally to return to combat and, just as important, to spend time 
with their families, to be able to reconnect with the loved ones they 
have left behind when they have gone into this war.

We are placing an unfair and unreasonable burden on those military 
families, families who are willing to sacrifice, who have sacrificed; 
families who count on us to be there for them, representing their 
interests and the interests of their loved ones who are on the front 
lines. They are doing all of it in the name of a policy that the 
military itself has indicated is not only unreasonable but unsafe. The 
Department of Defense itself has said that the conditions under which 
they are operating have been unreasonable and unsafe.

Historically, the Department of Defense, as has been said, has 
mandated a combat-to-rest ratio of 1 to 2--1 month on, 2 months off as 
an example; 1 year in combat, 2 years at home--to rest, retrain, and 
prepare for the next deployment. In fact, the historic 1-to-2 ratio is 
currently the stated policy of the DOD. We are hearing from colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle as if this is some outrageous idea, that 
we put some parameters around the deployment and redeployment of our 
troops. Yet it is the stated policy of the Department of Defense: 1 
month or 1 year on, 2 months or 2 years here at home.

The Webb amendment merely sets a 1-to-1 ratio, a floor that only gets 
us halfway to the standard the Department of Defense itself has called 
for. The policies pursued by this administration have stretched our men 
and women in uniform to the breaking point. Our Armed Forces are 
getting the job done under the most extreme


and trying conditions imaginable. Most of us have had an opportunity, 
firsthand, to see them in action, to see what they are doing and the 
conditions under which they are operating. They are getting the job 
done. No one is surprised because we have the best and the brightest, 
but they are under extreme and trying conditions. They face an enemy 
who often cannot be identified. They face an environment that is harsh 
and hot and unbearable. They do their jobs with pride, with honor, with 
dignity, and most certainly with excellence.

The current deployment schedule places an unfair burden not only on 
our soldiers and sailors and airmen and marines but on the families 
they leave behind. Military families have, in their own way, been 
called to serve this country, been called to sacrifice. They demand our 
respect and support for the sacrifices they are making. What we are 
currently asking of them is simply unreasonable. When our troops go 
into combat, the people they leave behind shoulder the burden of 
keeping the family together while mom or dad--mother, father, sister, 
brother--is fighting in service to their country. They are left to face 
not only the practical problems that come with having a family member 
gone for long stretches of time but also the constant uncertainty and 
stress of simply not knowing what is happening to their loved one. Are 
they safe? Will they come home safely? Our troops and their families 
have done everything we have asked of them. They have been there for 
America. And now the answer to the question must be that we will be 
there for them.

The young Americans who volunteer to put on the uniform and fight for 
our country are truly our best. They are the best-trained, the best-
equipped, the bravest fighting forces in the world, and they are one of 
the Nation's most valuable assets and greatest resources. Current 
administration policy is abusing their willingness and desire to serve. 
This has to stop. By straining and stretching our military, we are 
undercutting our own national security. We are compromising everything 
we have done to build up a force that can defend America and properly 
respond to the dangers we face in today's uncertain world.

Senator Webb has crafted an amendment that addresses the concerns of 
our military leaders. It includes reasonable waivers in the face of 
unexpected threats to America. It includes a transition window that 
will allow a shift in the deployment schedule without a disruption of 
our fighting forces. We have worked with the military to develop a 
policy that makes sense. I commend Senator Webb for his foresight and 
his willingness to work with the Secretary of Defense and others to 
make the changes, to make this even more workable. We compromised where 
it makes sense to strengthen the legislation, but we will not 
compromise on the safety of our troops or on the support for their 
families.

This amendment is not about where we stand on the war. It is not 
about partisan politics. It is about doing the right thing for our 
troops and for their families. I urge my colleagues to stand up and 
vote for the Webb amendment. Stand with the people we have sent to war 
and their families waiting at home, and stand with all Americans who 
want us to have the right kind of policy to support our troops and to 
keep us safe for the future.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.