---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `ff0584b6dbe6d197018502d9332a2ba9`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 9 September 2009`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the House Republican 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information 
regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 3326--Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2010.

Defense Critical Languages and Cultures Initiative--(Center for 
Security Studies) Angelo State University. The funding would be used 
for the University's Center for Security Studies which will produce 
cross culturally competent students able to understand and influence 
outcomes in support of American national security objectives. The 
Center for Security Studies will directly benefit Goodfellow Air Force 
Base by providing an educational degree completion for faculty as well 
as research opportunities on existing and emerging Air Force language, 
culture and intelligence requirements. Extra instructional capacity for 
Goodfellow Air Force Base in Mandarin and Arabic is also achieved. The 
project is located at Angelo State University, 2601 W. Avenue N, San 
Angelo, TX 76909.

Mobile Firing Range for the Texas Army National Guard. The Mobile 
Firing Range is a self contained range that allows for the firing of 
pistol and rifle systems for the Texas National Guard. Currently there 
is no opportunity to fire weapons for training or qualification without 
traveling to a certified range on a military installation. The Texas 
National Guard currently does not have access to any indoor ranges that 
can be used to fire the M16/M4 which is the current armament for 90 
percent of the soldiers within the Texas National Guard. The Mobile 
Firing Range will allow soldiers to train with their assigned weapons 
at home station. This system is a training and force multiplier due to 
the negation of travel and lodging, and staging needed when conducting 
this training on a military facility. The entity to receive funding for 
this project is Texas National Guard, 2200 West 35th Street, Austin, TX 
78763.

Center for Hetero-Functional Materials. The U.S. Army Research and 
Laboratory Material and Devices division has deemed the Center for 
Hetero-Functional Materials, CHM, as critical to developing next 
generation devices for the military. CHM provides the infrastructure 
and resources required for research and development of new materials 
and processes that will be required for the fabrication of next 
generation military devices. This initiative integrates multiple 
disciplines to help produce a new range of materials that will lead to 
new devices with unprecedented capabilities. The entity to receive 
funding for this project is Texas State University at San Marcos, 601 
University Drive, San Marcos, TX 78666.

Compact Pulsed Power Initiative. This funding would be used for the 
development of explosive or battery-operated, compact, high-power 
radiation sources and associated antenna systems capable of destroying 
electronics used for radars, communications, computer, or remote 
detonation devices, and others that can disable car engines. The 
information gained from this research will be significant in furthering 
our nation's defense capabilities especially in the area of disabling 
and destroying IEDs. The entity to receive funding for this project is 
Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, mail stop 3121, TX 79409.

Field Deployable Hologram Production System. This funding would be 
used for completing development of a compact production unit that 
produces 3D holographic imagery for mission planning and intelligence 
purposes for U.S. forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Army requests a 
self-contained, field-deployable EHI production system to accelerate 
imagery delivery to combat forces. The goal is a more efficient, cost 
effective production system that provides the deployed war fighter 
needed planning and intelligence capabilities on a much faster basis. 
The entity to receive funding for this project is Zebra Imaging, Inc, 
9801 Metric Blvd, Austin, TX 78758.
