# ENERGY PRICES
## `ff05fdffcdc9b3684a98ac06c41a5d70`
`Mr. LEVIN — 12 May 2008`

---


Mr. LEVIN. In addition to finding that the energy markets needed 
better regulation and oversight, the report issued by my subcommittee 
in 2003 also found that the Bush administration's large deposits of oil 
into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve--SPR--were increasing prices but 
not overall U.S. energy security. We found that in 2002, the Bush 
administration, over the repeated objections of its own experts in the 
Department of Energy, had changed its policy and decided to put oil 
into the SPR regardless of the price of oil or market conditions. By 
placing oil into the SPR while oil prices were high and oil supplies 
were tight, the administration's deposits into the SPR were reducing 
market supplies and boosting prices, with almost no benefit to national 
security, given the fact that the SPR is more than 95 percent filled. 
The DOE experts believed that in a tight market, we are better off with 
keeping the oil on the market rather than putting it into the ground 
where it cannot be used.

Following the issuance of this report, in early 2003 I asked the 
Department of Energy to suspend its filling of the SPR until prices had 
abated and supplies were more plentiful. DOE refused to change course 
and continued the SPR fill without regard to market supplies or prices.

After DOE denied my request, I offered a bipartisan amendment with my 
colleague Senator Collins to the Interior Appropriations bill, which 
provides funding for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve program, to 
require DOE to minimize the costs to the taxpayers and market impacts 
when placing oil into the SPR. The Senate unanimously adopted our 
amendment, but it was dropped from the conference report due to the 
Bush administration's continued opposition.

The next spring, I offered another amendment, also with Senator 
Collins, to the budget resolution, expressing the sense of the Senate 
that the administration should postpone deliveries into the SPR and use 
the savings from the postponement to increase funding for national 
security programs. The amendment passed the Senate by a vote of 52-43. 
That fall, we attempted to attach a similar amendment to the homeland 
security appropriations bill that would have postponed the SPR fill and 
used the savings for homeland security programs, but the amendment was 
defeated by a procedural vote, even though the majority of Senators 
voted in favor of the amendment, 48-47.

The next year, the Senate passed the Levin-Collins amendment to the 
Energy Policy Act of 2005 to require the DOE to consider price impacts 
and minimize the costs to the taxpayers and market impacts when placing 
oil into the SPR. The Levin-Collins amendment was agreed to by the 
conferees and is now law.

Unfortunately, passage of this provision has had no effect upon DOE's 
actions. DOE continues to fill the SPR regardless of the market effects 
of buying oil, thereby taking oil off the market and reducing supply by 
placing it into the SPR. In the past year, no matter what the price of 
oil or market conditions, DOE has consistently found that the market 
effects are negligible and no reason to delay filling the SPR.

Currently, at the same time the President has urged OPEC to put more 
oil on the market to reduce supplies, the administration is continuing 
to take oil off the market and place it into the SPR. The DOE is 
currently depositing about 70,000 barrels of crude oil per day into the 
SPR, much of it high-quality crude oil that is ideal for refining into 
gasoline. It simply defies common sense for the U.S. government


to be acquiring oil at $120 barrel, in a time of tight supply, just 
before the peak driving season, and put it into the SPR. That is why I 
have co-sponsored Senator Dorgan's bill to suspend the SPR fill for 1 
year, or until prices fall to more acceptable levels, whichever comes 
first. Passing this legislation will save the taxpayers money and 
relieve some of the pressure on the oil markets that is driving prices 
relentlessly higher. A similar provision is also included in the 
Democrats' Consumer-First Energy Act.

The recent SPR fill has exacerbated yet another problem in our oil 
markets--the fact that the standard NYMEX futures contract that sets 
the benchmark price for U.S. crude oil requires a particular type of 
high quality crude oil known as West Texas Intermediate, WTI, to be 
delivered at a particular location--Cushing, OK. The standard NYMEX 
contract price, in turn, has a major influence on the price of fuels 
refined from crude oil such as gasoline, heating oil, and diesel.

Because the price of the standard contract depends upon the supply of 
WTI at Cushing, OK, the supply and demand conditions in Oklahoma have a 
disproportionate influence on the price of NYMEX futures contracts. 
That means when the WTI price is no longer representative of the price 
of U.S. crude oil in general, the prices of other energy commodities 
are also thrown out of whack. In other words, we have an oil futures 
market that reflects the supply and demand conditions in Cushing, OK, 
but not necessarily the overall supply and demand situation in the 
United States as a whole.

I have long called for reform of this outdated feature of the 
standard NYMEX crude oil contract. In 2003, the PSI report recommended 
the CFTC and NYMEX to work together to revise the standard NYMEX crude 
oil futures contract to reduce its susceptibility to local imbalances 
in the market for WTI crude oil. The subcommittee report suggested that 
allowing for delivery at other locations could reduce the volatility of 
the contract. It is truly disappointing that since our report was 
issued, no progress has been made for allowing for delivery at other 
places than Cushing, OK. As the price of oil has increased, the 
distortions and imbalances caused by the atypical nature of the 
standard contract have gotten worse. It is essential NYMEX repair its 
crude oil contract.

Putting the cop on the beat in our energy markets, strengthening 
access to key oil trading information, stopping the SPR fill, and 
fixing the NYMEX crude oil contract all focus on problems caused by 
rising energy prices. These consistently rising gas prices also 
underscore the need to develop advanced vehicle technologies and 
alternative energy sources that will significantly reduce our 
dependence on foreign oil.

I have long advocated advanced automotive technologies such as hybrid 
electric, advanced batteries, hydrogen and fuel cells and promoted 
development of these technologies through Federal research and 
development and through joint government-industry partnerships. We need 
a significant infusion of Federal dollars into these efforts to make 
revolutionary breakthroughs in automotive technologies. Such an 
investment will make technologies such as plug-in hybrid vehicles 
affordable to the American public, and reduce our dependence on oil and 
reduce prices at the pump.

We need an equally strong investment in development of alternative 
fuels that can replace gasoline. I have strongly supported efforts to 
increase our production of renewable fuels and to do that in a way that 
will also reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. We need a strong push 
toward biofuels produced from cellulosic materials, which requires a 
significantly greater Federal investment in biofuels technologies. 
Cellulosic ethanol has enormous potential for significant reductions in 
greenhouse gas emissions but additional Federal support is required to 
make this technology financially viable. We need expanded Federal 
research and development grants as well as increased tax incentives and 
Federal loan guarantees to make cellulosic ethanol a viable replacement 
for gasoline. The Federal Government must do its part first to develop 
these technologies so that they will then in turn be within reach of 
the American public.

One more point. The burden of higher energy prices is not being 
shared equally. To the contrary, it is falling hardest upon those who 
can least afford it. Large oil companies are reaping record profits at 
the expense of the average American who ultimately bears the full 
burden of these price increases. At the same time that average 
Americans are having to devote a greater and greater portion of their 
income to pay for basic necessities, such as gasoline, household 
utilities, and food, the major oil companies are reporting record 
profits, and their executives are taking home annual paychecks of 
hundreds of millions of dollars. Many of these profits have been 
generated without any additional investments into energy production. 
Rather, these companies have seen their profits rise with the flood of 
speculation. What is a high tide of profits for the oil companies, 
though, is a tsunami that is overwhelming millions of Americans.

And what are these oil companies doing with these record profits? Are 
they investing in new technologies? The answer is that the oil 
companies are not increasing their exploration and development 
investments by nearly as much as their profits are increasing. Instead, 
they are devoting large amounts of their profits to acquiring other 
companies and buying back their own shares. On May 1 of this year, the 
Wall Street Journal reported that in the first quarter of 2008 
ExxonMobil spent $8 billion to buy back company shares, which ''boosted 
per-share earnings to stratospheric levels,'' whereas it spent less on 
exploration and actually reduced oil production.

For these reasons, we need to institute a windfall profits tax on the 
oil companies. We should incentivize big oil companies to invest their 
windfall profits into things that will increase our own domestic energy 
production by reducing the amount of the tax for such investments. If 
they don't make these investments, a portion of that profit should be 
recouped by the public to help offset the outrageous prices they are 
facing at the pump.

I have supported a windfall profits tax numerous times when we have 
voted on it in the Senate. The Consumer-First Energy Act imposes a 25 
percent tax on windfall profits of the major oil companies. Windfall 
profits invested to boost domestic energy supplies would be exempt from 
the tax, which would encourage investments in renewable facilities and 
the production of renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel. It 
would also encourage oil companies to increase their domestic refinery 
capacity. Proceeds from the tax would be put toward measures to reduce 
the burdens of rising energy costs and increase our energy independence 
and security.

Mr. President, let me summarize. Skyrocketing energy prices are tying 
our already weak economy in knots and causing financial pain to working 
families throughout this country. Congress cannot just stand by. We 
should act now to stop the pain.

Immediate steps include putting the cop back on the beat in our 
energy markets, strengthening our access to key oil trading data in 
London, fixing the key NYMEX crude oil contract, stopping the senseless 
filling of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, investing in advanced 
vehicle technologies and alternative energy sources, and imposing a 
windfall profits tax on the oil companies. Longer range steps include 
fixing the fiscal policies undermining the strength of the U.S. dollar, 
including by eliminating tax cuts for the wealthiest among us, reducing 
the $12 billion a month spending that is taking place in Iraq, closing 
the tax loopholes such as the use of tax havens to avoid payment of 
taxes to Uncle Sam. Those tax havens and that loophole that allows the 
use of those havens is costing the Treasury in the range of $100 
billion a year. We can fight back against exorbitantly high energy 
prices, but it will take all of our energy and determination to do it.









Summary of Oil Trading Transparency Act


















Summary




 The Levin-Feinstein Oil Trading Transparency Act would 


 direct the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to 


 ensure that any foreign exchange operating a trading terminal 


 in the United States for the trading of a U.S. energy 


 commodity meets two regulatory requirements that already 


 apply to U.S. exchanges: (1) imposition of speculative 


 trading limits to prevent price




 manipulation and excessive speculation, and (2) the mandatory 


 daily publication of trading information from the exchange to 


 ensure market transparency. The bill would also require the 


 CFTC to obtain information from the foreign exchange to 


 enable it to determine how much trading in U.S. energy 


 commodities is due to speculation.

















 Background




 Currently, a key foreign exchange (ICE Futures Europe) that 


 recently began trading trades futures contracts for crude oil 


 produced in the United States is allowed by the CTFC to 


 operate trading terminals in the United States.



 ICE Futures Europe is owned by the Intercontinental 


 Exchange (ICE), a U.S. company based in Atlanta, Georgia, 


 which also operates the largest electronic energy trading 


 platform in the United States outside of the NYMEX exchange 


 in New York.



 ICE Futures Europe trades two types of crude oil, Brent 


 crude oil produced in the North Sea, and West Texas 


 Intermediate (WTI) crude oil produced in the United States. 


 It is the only foreign exchange that trades U.S. crude oil. 


 ICE Futures Europe bases the settlement price of its WTI 


 contract price on the settlement price of the WTI contract 


 traded on the NYMEX exchange, so the price of both WTI 


 futures contracts are virtually identical.



 For a number of years the CFTC has allowed ICE Futures 


 Europe to operate trading terminals in the United States. At 


 first, only Brent contracts could be traded on U.S. 


 terminals, but in 2006 ICE began trading WTI contracts in 


 London. This 2006 development allowed U.S. traders to trade 


 WTI futures contracts in London as well as in New York. This 


 means that crude oil produced and used in the United States 


 can be traded by U.S. traders on an exchange that is beyond 


 the reach of U.S. regulators. Approximately 30 to 40% of WTI 


 futures trades--which are key to setting U.S. oil prices--now 


 occur in London, beyond U.S. oversight.



 Although the CFTC has a data sharing agreement with the 


 U.K. regulatory authority, the Financial Services Authority 


 (FSA), to obtain trading data from the London exchange, the 


 FSA does not collect or provide data that would enable the 


 CFTC to determine how much WTI futures trading is due to 


 speculation. Absent this information, CFTC weekly reports on 


 speculation in U.S. crude oil futures are incomplete and 


 inaccurate. The FSA also does not impose position limits on 


 traders to limit speculative trading. The absence of these 


 position limits means that a U.S. trader can avoid U.S. oil 


 speculation limits on U.S. exchanges simply by routing its 


 trades through London.



 The bill would correct these market deficiencies by 


 disallowing the operation of foreign exchange terminals in 


 the United States, unless the foreign exchange meets 


 comparable requirements for market transparency and 


 speculative limits as now apply in the United States.
