---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE STRONG ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE  UNITED STATES
## `ff1ca7003cdc83a0c0c2f38a5ba75989`
`Mr. BOOZMAN — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.



Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this resolution, which 
recognizes the enduring ties of an alliance first forged over half a 
century ago in the crucible of the Korean War. It was heartening to see 
the photographs from Seoul of the thousands of South Korean citizens 
who gathered in a downtown plaza on June 6, Korea's memorial day, to 
express their support of the alliance. They waved South Korean flags 
and the Stars and Stripes together to show enthusiasm for the strong 
bonds that link our two countries.

Later this month, June 25, marks the 57th anniversary of the North 
Korean invasion across the Demilitarized Zone. This surprise attack in 
the early hours of a Sunday morning sought to snuff the life out of an 
embryonic South Korean democracy. President Harry Truman's immediate 
unflinching decision to come to the aid of an embattled South Korea 
proved that the United States would not retreat from its rendezvous 
with destiny.

Together with our South Korean and other allies, we turned the tide 
of war at Inchon and preserved the South Korean state, which we honor 
as an ally today.

South Korea's commitment to the alliance is seen in many ways, as in 
the 1,200 South Korean military personnel deployed to Iraq, which makes 
South Korea's contribution the third largest in the coalition 
contingent. There is also the $460 million which the Republic of Korea 
has pledged toward postwar Iraq reconstruction, and there are the close 
consultations we hold together in the six-party process to resolve the 
North Korean nuclear issue. These are the actions of a true and loyal 
friend, for which we express our gratitude in this resolution.

Let me also take this opportunity to second the words of the United 
States forces Korea commander, General Bell, that South Korea Sergeant 
Yoon Jang-ho, who was South Korea's first uniformed casualty in the war 
on terror, was a hero. Sergeant Yoon was killed February 27 by a 
suicide bomber in Bagram, Afghanistan.

This young soldier, although born in Korea, had spent his high school 
and college years in Indiana, graduating from Indiana University. He 
returned to South Korea to complete his military service and 
volunteered for service in Afghanistan. His loss was deeply felt, both 
in his home nation of Korea and his adopted hometown of Bloomington, 
Indiana.

The shared mourning of the peoples of two nations for this valiant 
soldier is one more concrete indication of the ties that bind our two 
nations. Another, of course, is the talent and dynamism of the 2-
million-strong ethnic Korean community in the United States. Los 
Angeles represents the largest concentrated urban center of Korean 
culture outside of the Korean Peninsula. For this enriching 
contribution to America's melting pot, we are extremely grateful.

I therefore urge immediate passage of this resolution which 
recognizes this strong and enduring alliance.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.