---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5136, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `ff2fd4579c4ecc8f31a149c2b999c63b`
`Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida. I would like to thank my friend, 
the gentlewoman from Maine (Ms. Pingree), for the time, and I yield 
myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, our 
Armed Forces have been deployed in two major theaters of operation--
Afghanistan and Iraq. Like their forefathers of long-ago wars, too many 
of these noble servicemembers have paid with what Abraham Lincoln 
called the ''last full measure of devotion to the Nation.'' Many more 
brave men and women bear the physical and mental scars of battle, which 
will last their lifetimes.

Just this past week, two of my constituents were killed in the line 
of duty. Marine Lance Corporal Patrick Xavier, Jr., of Pembroke Pines, 
fell during a firefight in Afghanistan; and Army Staff Sergeant Amilcar 
Gonzalez, of Miami, who signed up 1 week after the cowardly attacks of 
September 11, 2001, passed away in Iraq when insurgents attacked his 
unit.



I know I speak on behalf of the entire Congress and a grateful Nation 
to express our deepest condolences to Patrick and Amilcar's families 
and pray for God's mercies upon them as they cope with their sorrow.

After learning of his son's death, Corporal Patrick Xavier's father 
said, He went out there to do what he wanted to do. He wanted to defend 
this Nation. Although I feel the loss, I am proud of how he conducted 
himself.

His father's words remind us about the solemn sacrifices that our 
veterans and family forces continue to make for us. The freedom we have 
is made possible by men and women like Lance Corporal Patrick Xavier 
and Staff Sergeant Amilcar Gonzalez. Each have stood ready in defense 
of the Nation. Our Nation owes them an immeasurable debt of gratitude. 
We have our freedoms because of their valor.

As a Congress, we are committed to ensuring our veterans and their 
families receive all the benefits and assistance they require and they 
certainly deserve. It is wholly appropriate, therefore, that we bring 
up this legislation, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2011, on the eve of the Memorial Day weekend.

Among its provisions, the bill provides our military personnel a 1.9 
percent pay raise, versus the 1.4 percent proposed by the Obama 
administration.

It increases the family separation allowance for service members who 
are deployed away from their families from $250 to $285 a month.

It increases hostile fire and imminent danger pay from $250 to $260 
per month.

For the purpose of the Federal student loan cancellation program, it 
defines a year of service as 6 months or longer of deployment in 
hostile fire or imminent danger zones.

Recognizing the critical role military families play and the 
sacrifices they make, the bill also establishes a career development 
pilot program for military spouses.

To address the physical and mental scars borne from combat, the 
legislation allows for an exemption for military medical providers 
older than 42 years to be considered for recruitment.

It also increases incentives for students in health care education 
programs to pursue military careers by allowing Health Professions 
Scholarship and Financial Assistance Program participants to also 
receive payments


from the Active Duty Health Professions Loan Repayment Program.

It also requires the services to increase the number of authorized 
mental health providers by 25 percent.

The legislation authorizes $567 billion in budget authority for the 
Department of Defense and the national security programs within the 
Department of Energy.

The bill also authorizes $159 billion to support overseas contingency 
operations and $34 billion for the military operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, as well as disaster assistance for the victims of the 
Haiti earthquake.

Later today, we are expected to consider an amendment by Mr. Murphy 
of Pennsylvania on the repeal of the so-called Don't Ask, Don't Tell 
policy. I am not interested in whatever legal activities adults engage 
in after-hours, off-base, out of uniform. Sexual preference should not 
even be a point of reference when judging individuals.

I also believe that when the President announced his decision to 
repeal the current policy and the military service chiefs and the 
Secretary of Defense requested the opportunity to carry out the 
President's directive in an orderly manner that would assure the 
maintenance of discipline and morale in the Armed Forces, and it was 
agreed to by all, including the President, that a survey would be sent 
to all the troops so that their input would be taken into account 
regarding how best to implement the new policy, and that a report with 
such recommendations as to how to best implement the new policy would 
be issued this December, before any legislative action was taken, it is 
my view that that process, which was agreed to by the President 
pursuant to the request of the service chiefs and the Secretary of 
Defense, should be followed.

So, breaking the agreement now by having this vote today is most 
unfortunate, and I strongly disagree with the decision of the 
President, the Speaker, and the majority leadership to do so, to break 
that agreement today.

I wish to thank Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member McKeon for their 
hard work on the underlying legislation and their commitment to 
producing a bipartisan bill that enjoys widespread support. Through the 
process, members on both sides of the aisle on the Armed Services 
Committee worked to produce a bipartisan bill, but as the bill made it 
up to the Rules Committee, that bipartisan spirit did not survive.

The rule brought forth by the majority today allows the House to 
debate a total of 82 amendments. Eleven of those amendments are 
bipartisan ones, while 64 are majority amendments and 7 are minority 
amendments.

So the majority has decided that on this always bipartisan bill, the 
bill that authorizes our military programs, they will allow nine 
majority amendments for every one minority amendment. That is some 
bipartisanship. But, again, it is typical of this majority to claim 
that they want to work with the minority, but even on bills that have 
overwhelming bipartisan support, they just can't seem to loosen their 
overwhelming urge to stifle debate, stifle debate, and block minority 
participation in the legislative process.

So, while I am disappointed by the majority's decision to allow such 
a disproportionate share of majority amendments compared to minority 
amendments, I have become quite accustomed to their behavior.

I reserve the balance of my time.