---
---

# GETTING THE NATION BACK ON TRACK
## `ff32796f3065f6257c4246b5a30d5ee1`
`Mr. AKIN — 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. AKIN. Well, thank you very much for yielding me some time here. I 
agree with you entirely that Congressman Hensarling from Texas really 
does us proud, and we think an awful lot of his constituents for 
sending Mr. Hensarling here. He is a great leader and really 
understands the basic principles and levers on what makes Congress 
work.

Mr. Barrett from South Carolina, I appreciate your managing the time 
before us this evening, and your integrity and leadership, and the fact 
that you are pretty smart and on top of these issues. We need people 
like that here.

The question before us tonight, do we want tax increases or tax 
decreases. It is a pretty simple choice: Tax increases or tax 
decreases. Historically there were two guys, one guy plugging each one. 
One was called little Lord Keynesian economics. That is the one that 
said what we want to do is we want to do tax increases. If the 
government just spends enough money, by golly, it is just like standing 
inside a bucket, grabbing the handle and lifting up, and we will just 
float our way out of any economic problems. So the idea is government 
will spend a lot of money and increase taxes. That is a Keynesian 
approach.

The other approach was advanced a little later, after Keynes, and it 
was Milton Friedman. He said no, when you have your economy in trouble, 
you are starting to get into a recession, you want to do tax decreases. 
Now that might sound like a crazy idea because if you cut taxes, you 
think, I won't be able to pay for all of the things that government is 
doing. We already have a deficit, how can you cut taxes.

Well, one of the ways to take a look at which one of these ideas is a 
better idea is take a look at how it has worked historically. We have a 
long record on that, actually. You can go back to the 1920s, and Calvin 
Coolidge cut taxes at a time when the economy was having a hard time, 
and the economy surged. In fact, they gave it a name, they called it 
the Roaring 20s.

Next was FDR. Now FDR in his earlier years, he was in trouble 
politically, so he got a clever idea. He said I am going to take some 
Federal money and start building using Federal money in the States 
where I need some votes. He goes out and doubles and then triples the 
budget of the Federal Government. The Federal Government was only 
spending about 3 percent, and he took it up to 9 percent. That was the 
1930s and 1940s. And, of course, the Great Depression was brought on by 
that extensive spending on the part of the Federal Government and the 
tax increases that were necessary to try to cover that.

In 1960, and this is a place where we step a little out of the 
political pattern. In general, Republicans have been on the side of 
cutting taxes. But here was a Democrat, John F. Kennedy. In 1960 he 
said the economy is in trouble, and we need to cut taxes. JFK did that, 
and we had 7 or 8 years of very strong economy.

So again, when you cut taxes, the economy surged and did better.

In the 1980s, Ronald Reagan was stuck with a very difficult economy. 
He did a huge tax cut. Everybody says Reaganomics, it was foolish to 
cut taxes, except it worked. We had a tremendously strong economy. It 
was that strong economy that allowed Ronald Reagan to spend money on 
defense and basically economically break the back of the Soviet Union, 
thus winning the Cold War.

Then we came back with Bush I and Clinton. They went back to the 
raise-taxes formula. The economy gets in trouble. Bush II comes into 
office in 2000, and we have a recession starting. What happens, in 2003 
he does a major tax cut particularly where it was necessary to help 
small businesses to help invest in the economy, and now we have had 
about 5 years of a very strong economy because of the tax cuts.

Well, where are we today?

The Democrats today are really into the idea of tax increases. Not 
only have they raised billions and billions in additional spending in 
2007, but they have proposed the mother of all tax increases. That does 
make me scared around Thanksgiving when you hear about the mother of 
all tax increases, a $3-plus trillion tax increase. That is going to 
repeal all of the Bush tax cuts.

So now you have the economy that is pretty shaky right now, and what 
are you going to do; you are going to slam it with massive tax 
increases, and that is the formula that goes right back to little Lord 
Keynesian that the Democrats are pushing.

The question could be asked, we are not being able to cover all of 
our bills, how can you talk about cutting taxes, being responsible when 
you talk about cutting taxes, wouldn't you have to pay all of these 
bills for the government. Well, here is an interesting thing, and it is 
one that I heard talked about but I never really quite analyzed it. I 
would like you to picture in your mind that you are king for the day 
and your job is to try to raise some money for your government to do 
some programs. The only thing you get to tax is a loaf of bread.

So you start to think this one out. You see this loaf of bread 
sitting in front of you, and you think, am I going to put a one penny 
tax on a loaf of bread, and you start calculating how many loaves of 
bread that we use in the country, and figure out what you raise. You 
think, why not charge $100 for taxes on a loaf of bread.

Then you think maybe no one would buy the bread then. Common sense 
says somewhere between a penny and $100 there is some level of tax on 
the loaf of bread that if you increase it, you will lose tax revenue. 
And if you decrease it, you will lose tax revenue. So what is going on 
here is that there is some optimum level of taxing, and when you go 
beyond it, even though you raise taxes, you are actually crashing the 
economy and you are not going to collect as much money because the 
economy is going to die.


You think about the fact in this last Bush administration people were 
complaining about the tax cuts and the cost of the war. The interesting 
thing is if you add the cost of the war in Iraq and Afghanistan and the 
cost of the tax cuts, they don't equal as much as what the recession 
was costing us in the beginning of 2000. Recessions are very expensive. 
So if you drive your taxes too much, the economy slows and you don't 
get the tax revenue. You can raise taxes as much as you want, but if


the economy is sick, you are not going to get revenue in.

So that's the logic. It is like a loaf of bread. If you tax it too 
much, you actually get less revenue coming into the government.

Now the thing that I find ironic about this whole thing, we have all 
of this history in America and we know that tax cuts are the medicine 
you need when you have a recession. We don't want excessive spending, 
and we cannot afford these huge tax cuts. And the ironic thing is that 
the socialistic Europeans have figured this out. We have the economists 
who figured it out, and yet we are not acting on the intelligence that 
we have. The Europeans, they figured hey, this is a good deal, we will 
cut taxes and our economy will grow. And so they whacked taxes 8 or 9 
years ago, and their economy is going gangbusters. All of Europe asks, 
What did Ireland do? Oh, Ireland cut its taxes. And so good old 
socialistic Germany and socialistic France, they are working to cut 
taxes. They figured it out.

And here we are, the people who actually came up under Milton 
Friedman with this understanding of economics, and what are we doing, 
we are talking about the mother of all tax increases. This is insanity. 
I can't understand why the Democrats want to do this. If I were a 
Democrat, I would want to hand out pork and programs to people; I would 
want a strong economy. I would want to cut taxes so I would have more 
money to spend. It doesn't make sense to pass these huge, massive tax 
increases.

I think we could learn from history, or we could just learn from the 
Irish.

I certainly appreciate the gentleman from South Carolina yielding me 
the time to talk about this. The question is are we going to do tax 
increases or tax decreases? If you care about the economy and if you 
care about the future of our children, the answer has to be that we 
have to use the Milton Friedman approach and we have to get control of 
our spending and we have to cut our taxes.