---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `ff5e4015d1f1817f48b88534cfe13b80`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, through you, responding to my friend 
from Illinois, the direct and short answer is no, it does not. In fact, 
in the modification I will soon send to the desk, we have added a 
section that says explicitly what was intended implicitly, which is, 
''Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize or otherwise 
speak to the use of Armed Forces against Iran.''

I say to my friend from Illinois, my hope here--in the midst of a 
contentious debate in which there is division in the Senate--is that no 
matter where one stands on the issues we are debating, on the facts 
that the U.S. military has presented about the complicity of Iran and 
its agents in training and equipping terrorists who are then coming in 
and killing Americans and Iraqis, there is agreement. And there is 
agreement also on the ''therefores'' or the ''resolved,'' which is, 
these are intolerable and unacceptable acts, and we call on the 
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to take immediate action to 
stop them.

Significantly--to me, anyway--we set up an operational procedure 
where, in the first 30 days and then every 60 days thereafter, General 
Petraeus or his successor, the Ambassador to Iraq and successor, will 
report to us on any new evidence about the activities of Iran in Iraq.

But because I want very much for this to be a statement that as many 
of the Members here--hopefully, all--could support, I do want to make 
it clear because I understand this is not


meant as an authorization of the use of force or in any other way to 
speak to the use of force against Iran.