# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `ff79ca172e42cac10a783df35c97d65b`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 25 October 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Madam Speaker, I helped negotiate the original SCHIP 
when I worked for President Clinton. It was President Clinton who 
proposed the SCHIP bill, not the Republicans; in fact, they opposed it. 
Then they agreed, after the Balanced Budget Agreement, that we would 
have pediatric care, eye and dental; but it was President Clinton that 
demanded it and made it a precondition before any agreement on the 
Balanced Budget Agreement.

Now, I believe the sincerity that my colleagues support this, and I 
believe the sincerity of what they said in their letter, which is why 
we answered every one of those questions, both the sincerity in 
supporting it, and the sincerity of those remarks. At some point, you 
have to understand that you can take yes for an answer, and that is, we 
have provided that answer.

Second is, Dolores Sweeney lives in my district. She works for an 
insurance company. Dolores Sweeney has three kids. Her insurance 
company does not provide her or her kids health care. She does right by 
her kids; she earns a paycheck, not a welfare check. If her kids got 
sick, she would go to Medicaid and go to welfare, but she's doing right 
by her children because she's working and teaching them right from 
wrong. Her kids are in SCHIP. And without this program, her kids will 
live one illness away from Medicaid. Medicaid is for them, for the 
poor. SCHIP is for parents who work full time earning a paycheck, not a 
welfare check. They're doing right by their children.

Now, I believe in the sincerity of your position, which is why we 
answered that in the last two weeks. This vote is to say whether 10 
million children will get the health care they deserve, whose parents 
work full-time. These are parents who are doing right.

Now, the President at one time referred to SCHIP, the Children's 
Health Insurance Program, as excessive spending; yet this week he 
submitted a request for $200 billion more for Iraq. These kids are our 
future. Iraq is stealing our future from America.