---
---

# MEMORIAL DAY
## `ff7f7adaf983ae6a5bd38dc526e33346`
`Mr. WAXMAN — 21 May 2009`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Madam Speaker, each year Memorial Day is an important 
time to honor the fallen, renew our support to the wounded and 
recognize the commitment and heroism of those who serve the United 
States.

In my district this weekend the headstones of the Los Angeles 
National Cemetery, as those in hundreds of cemeteries across the 
country, will be surrounded by flowers and by loved ones paying their 
respects to the departed. In the hustle and bustle of everyday life, 
these serene and mournful fields honor those who have made the ultimate 
sacrifice in defense of the freedoms we so cherish.

The sanctity and preservation of our nation's battlefields, monuments 
and institutions are of utmost importance to ensure that future 
generations can pay their respects to those who have fought. One of my 
constituents, Leon Cooper, has been tireless in his efforts to raise 
awareness about the build-up of garbage and debris at Red Beach in 
Tarawa Atoll in the remote Pacific island nation of Kiribati. On this 
site, in a span of just a few days in November 1943, nearly 1700 
Marines and Navy personnel were killed and over 2000 more wounded in 
heavy fighting.

I applaud Mr. Cooper for his commitment. Recently his story about the 
Battle of Tarawa and its aftermath, Return to Tarawa: The Leon Cooper 
Story, debuted on the Discovery Network. This documentary, narrated by 
Ed Harris, provides a remarkable window into the events surrounding 
both the battle itself and Mr. Cooper's involvement, and is a great 
service to future generations.

I encourage our local U.S. Embassy in Fiji to work with the 
Government of Kiribati on sanitation and conservation projects that 
would provide long-term solutions for maintaining the coastline and 
preserving the area. It would be a tribute to our veterans and a great 
benefit to the Kiribati people.

While we honor those fallen and veterans from generations past, we 
must also honor the needs of our soldiers returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. The past three years have seen a remarkable increase in 
support for our nation's veterans, including the strengthening of 
quality health care, funding increases to treat traumatic brain injury 
and post-traumatic stress disorder, a record increase in veterans' 
educational funding, and other improvements to address deficiencies in 
medical facilities and housing.

The 30th congressional district is home to the West Los Angeles 
Veterans Medical Center, the largest VA hospital in the continental 
United States. The West LA VA was built on land that was generously 
donated in 1888 to serve as an Old Soldiers' Home. I am pleased that a 
State Veterans Home is being constructed on the property and that the 
VA is moving forward to develop long-term therapeutic supportive 
housing on the campus. In addition, I am delighted that the Fisher 
Foundation has built a facility on the property where veterans' 
families can live while their loved ones are getting medical treatment 
at the hospital. These are all appropriate uses that are consistent 
with the deed and will benefit our nation's veterans.

I remain opposed, however, to the VA's consideration of any plan that 
would divert portions of this land for commercial uses. That is why I 
am pleased that Senator Dianne Feinstein and I were able to have 
legislation passed by Congress and signed by the President to prohibit 
the sale or commercialization of the campus. I will continue my work 
with local veterans groups, elected officials and the community to 
ensure that the property of the West LA VA is preserved for programs 
that benefit and serve our veterans.

As Americans join together this Memorial Day, let us properly thank 
those who stand in harm's way, far from home, living under continual 
risk and fighting under the stars and stripes to preserve and defend 
the freedoms that all Americans cherish and hold dear. We owe these 
brave men and women an enduring debt of gratitude.
