---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ff844e3c73131963d7ddc3f774f17746`
`Mr. BARRETT of South Carolina — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. BARRETT of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady 
for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, over the next 2 to 3 days, Members of Congress will come 
to the well and they will talk about the Iraq resolution. They will 
talk about troop levels and spending and funding and security, 
training, strategy, a lot of different things in a lot of different 
ways, with valid arguments on both sides. But I want to boil it down to 
something simple, something that I understand, something that means 
more to me than some of the things I mentioned.

There is a gentleman from my district, a Major Rick Simmons, a native 
of Pickens, South Carolina, an Eagle Scout, a Citadel grad. From time 
to time he has written me letters concerning different issues in Iraq. 
He is in Fallujah right now.

He wrote me a letter dated 5 February, 2007. It is a rather lengthy 
letter, but I want to read you one sentence from this letter:

''This is not Bush's war, it is my war, and it is the war of every 
volunteer here because we know how high the stakes are for this 
country.'' ''My war.'' That is what he says. ''This is my war.''

Rick, first to you and all your comrades over there, I say thank you 
and God bless you. I pray for you every day. But I want to tell you 
something, son; it is my war too. It is my war and my children's war 
and my children's children's war.

This is our war, ladies and gentlemen. This is the greatest enemy 
that we have ever faced in my lifetime, Mr.


Speaker. And when I raised my right hand and put my left hand on the 
Bible, it was to support and defend the Constitution of the United 
States against all enemies. And it was to protect the protectors, the 
protectors of liberty, the protectors of democracy, the protectors of 
freedom. And if it takes a troop surge and a funding stream that is 
guaranteed, I will do everything I can to ensure the protectors have 
everything they need.

There is only one way out of Iraq, Mr. Speaker. There is only one way 
out of this war. Victory. Victory. I urge my colleagues to do the right 
thing and I urge them to vote against this resolution.