# SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 37--EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON  FEDERALISM IN IRAQ
## `ff8548a4b1dbb123965efdb05852002a`
`Mr. BIDEN — 7 June 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, today, Senators Brownback, Boxer, Smith, 
Bill Nelson and I are introducing a bipartisan resolution. It states 
clearly what so many of us agree on, the need for a political 
settlement in Iraq. But then it offers what virtually no one has put 
forward: a policy to actually secure that political settlement.

We propose that the United States actively support a political 
settlement among Iraqis based on the provisions of Iraq's constitution 
that call for creating federal system of government, with strong 
regions and a limited central government.

And we urge the administration to bring in the international 
community, including the permanent members of the U.N. Security Council 
and Iraq's neighbors, to support a settlement based on federalism and 
to convene a conference with Iraqis to help them reach that settlement.

Each of us recognizes this reality: when a country is caught in a 
cycle of self-sustaining sectarian violence as Iraq is today, there are 
only four ways to end it:

First, a bloodletting that leaves one side victorious or both sides 
exhausted. In the case of Iraq, that could take years . . . years we do 
not have and should not accept.

Second, an open-ended foreign occupation that America cannot sustain.

Third, the return of a strongman, who is not on the horizon. Even if 
he were, it would be a tragic irony to replace one dictator with 
another.

Or fourth, a political agreement to form a decentralized, federal 
system that separates the warring factions and gives them control over 
the fabric of their daily lives, including the police, jobs, education, 
marriage and religion.

It's a model that worked in Bosnia. It offers the possibility, but 
not the guarantee, of a soft landing Iraq.

The Bush administration has another vision for Iraq. But the entire 
premise of its policy is fundamentally and fatally flawed. It believes 
Iraqis will rally behind a strong central government that keeps the 
country together and protects the rights of all citizens equally.

But there is no trust within the central government, trust of the 
government by the people, and no capacity by the government to deliver 
services and security. And there is no evidence that we can build that 
trust and capacity soon.

Simply put, Iraq cannot be run from the center, absent a dictator or 
foreign occupation. If we want the country to hold together and find 
stability, we have to make federalism work. If we don't, there will be 
no political accommodation at the center.

Violent resistance will increase. The sectarian cycle of revenge will 
spiral out of control. The result will be at best the violent break up 
of Iraq into multiple states--at worst the total fragmentation of the 
country.

This resolution is part of a comprehensive strategy I have proposed 
to bring our troops home, to leave behind a stable Iraq and to protect 
our soldiers so long as a single one of them remains in Iraq.

I believe that is the best way to end the war in Iraq responsibly.
