# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ff895617acc01a7a04864625be6746db`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I am going to bring it back down 
a notch for a minute.

On Tuesday, I had the privilege to spend time with some of our 
Nation's finest. I traveled to Walter Reed Army Medical Center and 
talked with some of our soldiers who dedicated their lives to protect 
our Nation and gave their hearts, souls and bodies to the cause of 
freedom.

As I was driving out to the hospital, I reflected upon the changes in 
Iraq in the year-and-a-half since my first visit to Walter Reed. During 
that visit, IED was not a regular part of the American vocabulary, Mr. 
Speaker. Fatalities were shocking. The mounting death toll was 
disturbing.

Today, there are insurgent attacks almost every day. Iraq has 
descended into a deadly civil war, and almost every American has become 
familiar with the term IED and the deadly impact they have on the young 
men and women that we send to fight for us in this war.

The terms of war that my good friend from Indiana so well knows, the 
casualties, death, kidnappings, injuries, helicopter crashes, bombs, 
amputations, good-byes, sorrow and pain have all become commonplace.

We hear that another helicopter was shot down or that three more 
soldiers died today in Iraq, and soon enough we become numb to the true 
impact that


this war is having on our troops and their families.

These young men and women represent true honor, courage and 
selflessness. They also represent the incalculable cost of the war, the 
price tag that is not mentioned, the lives, limbs, hopes and dreams.

They are soldiers like a young man I met Tuesday who was travelling 
on foot with his convey when an IED exploded, and as he put it, blew 
him up. He had served in Iraq twice before, and on his third tour of 
duty, Mr. Speaker, he became a double amputee, lost his arm and leg. 
Clearly, his total experience will change him completely.

Another young soldier was spending time with his family when I 
visited. He has a 6-year-old little boy who talked to me excitedly 
about how his daddy was finally going to come home forever after 
August. He, too, had two previous tours and fell severely ill this 
third time. Amazingly, this soldier hopes to go over and finish his 
tour with his company when he is better.

As a mom of 7-year-old twins, my first thought when meeting this 
delightful little boy was that his dad had missed half his life so far, 
half his life. I could not help but worry that if we do not get it 
right soon in Iraq it will not be long before this little boy and my 
twins will be part of this conflict.

And finally, there are soldiers like the young man who shared so much 
with me and who sincerely explained to me that he was actually glad 
that he was badly injured, as opposed to his gunner, because his gunner 
had a wife and kids and he did not want his buddy's family to have to 
look into his eyes like that. He told me he wants to run for office one 
day, and our Nation will be better for it.

America's future depends upon this generation of Americans, but while 
they fight to protect our country, they are depending on us to protect 
them. They are counting on us, the United States Congress and this 
President, to have a plan, a strategy that gets us somewhere and to 
help get them home and not endlessly commit their lives and their 
families' lives to this war.

So, Mr. Speaker, today I join an overwhelming majority of the 
American people, a bipartisan majority of Congress and some of the 
President's own military leaders to raise my voice and to be the voice 
of the constituents, the thousands of people who I represent in the 
20th district of Florida, against escalating this war in Iraq.

But more importantly, I raise my voice for my generation and for all 
the little boys and girls in America whose mommies and daddies are in 
Iraq and Afghanistan fighting for this country and for freedom.

This President owes the American people, but more importantly, these 
brave troops, a strategy that makes sense, that will do the job and 
that will help get them home. The President's policy fails that 6-year-
old little boy with a heart of gold and a smile that lights up the room 
who only wants his daddy to come home forever.

I support this resolution because the explanation the President has 
given the American people is not good enough. I cannot help but think 
about the way this war is affecting not only my generation, Mr. 
Speaker, but the generations following mine. They, too, recognize the 
sacrifices that our men and women in uniform are facing.

Students from two schools in my district, Nob Hill Elementary and 
Silver Ridge Elementary, made Valentine's Day cards for the soldiers, 
and I got a chance to deliver them Tuesday during my visit to Walter 
Reed. One of these cards reads, the one right here: ''Thank you for 
protecting our country and me. You're the best. I would never have had 
the guts to fight with guns anyways. You are my hero. Forever and ever. 
Get well very, very soon.''

These young children recognize the service and sacrifice that these 
warriors are making. As Members of Congress, we owe them no less.

It is our responsibility to provide for the common defense, and that 
includes vigorous debate, informed discussion and responsible public 
policy.

I support this resolution because it does just that, and Mr. Speaker, 
I support this resolution because the gentleman from Indiana knows 
better.

It does not require words to question patriotism. We have had plenty 
of implication throughout this debate on this floor on the other side 
of the aisle, and death by a thousand cuts is the same as direct words. 
It is irresponsible and unconscionable that the other side of the aisle 
has questioned the patriotism of the Members who disagree.

It is Congress' job to disagree. It is our role in the system of 
checks and balances, as our Founding Fathers envisioned them, 
unfortunately a role that was absent for the last 12 years.