# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ff93314975e2a4eb6f721e49e8a4cee0`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 27 March 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, we have before us today a supplemental 
appropriations bill that will finally start the process of bringing our 
troops home.

The United States today is in its fifth year in Iraq. The 
administration offers no apparent road out of Iraq. It offers only an 
escalation plan that keeps growing, and an open-ended commitment to a 
civil war.

The Congress of the United States has an obligation to express its 
voice on this matter and to offer a solution.

The search for a solution has been difficult. We have come to the 
floor many times this year, and we have struggled to find the right 
course of action.

I believe that path is before us today.

This legislation would initiate the orderly drawdown of our forces 
and redefine the mission for a small supporting force that would 
remain. It sets benchmarks for the administration and for the Iraqi 
Government.

This legislation calls for actions which this administration has 
stubbornly resisted, including the prompt phased redeployment of U.S. 
forces from Iraq. This redeployment would begin within 120 days of the 
legislation being enacted.

The legislation sets a goal of March 31, 2008, for redeploying major 
combat forces from Iraq. A smaller force would be allowed to remain, 
with its mission limited to protecting American and coalition personnel 
and infrastructure, training and equipping Iraqi forces, and conducting 
targeted counterterrorism operations.

This supplemental also calls for a vigorous ''diplomatic, political, 
and economic strategy.''

This strategy would involve ''sustained engagement with Iraq's 
neighbors and the international community for the purpose of working 
collectively to bring stability to Iraq.''

This is the key to ending the violence in Iraq--the recognition that 
the solution to Iraq lies not in U.S. force but in political 
accommodation among the Iraqis.

This legislation also sets benchmarks for the Iraqi Government.

These include deploying trained and ready Iraqi security forces in 
Baghdad; strengthening the authority of Iraqi commanders to make 
tactical and operational decisions without political intervention; 
disarming militias and ensuring that Iraqi security forces are 
accountable only to the central government and loyal to the Iraqi 
Constitution; enacting and implementing legislation to ensure that 
Iraq's oil is distributed to all Iraqi citizens in an equitable manner; 
enacting and implementing legislation that reforms the de-
Ba'athification process in Iraq; ensuring a fair process for amending 
the Iraqi Constitution to protect minority rights; and enacting and 
implementing rules to protect the rights of minority political parties 
in the Iraqi Parliament.

Finally, this supplemental requires that the top U.S. commander in 
Iraq report to Congress on progress by the Iraqi Government in meeting 
these benchmarks--30 days after this act is enacted and every 90 days 
thereafter.

Our Nation's present course of action is untenable and unsustainable.

Our very purpose for being in Iraq bears little resemblance to the 
reasons Congress authorized the use of military force in October 2002. 
What do we have as we enter the fifth year of this war? A terrible 
human toll in dead and injured--3,200 Americans killed, more than 
24,000 wounded, with estimates of Iraqi civilian deaths that soar well 
into the six figures and a toll on our Treasury that is unsustainable.

According to the Congressional Research Service, the Iraq war is 
already the fourth most expensive war in U.S. history, behind World War 
II, Korea and Vietnam. We are spending roughly $8.4 billion in Iraq a 
month--more than $2 billion a week. So far we have spent nearly $400 
billion in Iraq. Think of the opportunity costs to this Nation. Wars 
cost money. I understand this. But we cannot continue this level of 
spending on a distant civil war with no exit strategy. If we keep our 
combat forces in Iraq for years to come--as this administration seems 
intent on doing--it will likely become the second costliest war we have 
ever waged.

Our military cannot continue to bear this heavy burden. This war has 
eroded our troop readiness, depleted military equipment, and left our 
fighting forces weary.

Consider these developments:



Army and Marine officers say the rapid pace of deployments into Iraq 
has put the readiness of their troops into a ''death spiral''--with 40 
percent of gear worn out and soldiers and marines left fatigued and 
undertrained. Our Nation owes our fighting forces better than this.

The 3rd Infantry Division, scrambling to meet deployment orders, 
reportedly has sent injured troops back to Iraq--including ones so 
badly injured that they could not put on their body armor. We owe our 
fighting forces better than this.

The Army's medical facilities are understaffed and underfunded--not 
just at Building 18 at Walter Reed--and its medical staff is 
overwhelmed. We owe our fighting forces better than this.

Some 1,800 Marine Corps reservists will get letters this week 
notifying them that they are being involuntarily recalled for a year, 
thanks to a shortage of volunteers to fill some jobs in Iraq.

This follows news that should make everyone in this Chamber take 
notice: The 82nd Airborne Division--the storied ''All-American'' 
Division--is so strained by this war that it can no longer respond on 
short notice to a crisis.

For decades, the 82nd Airborne has kept a brigade on round-the-clock 
alert--ready to respond to a crisis anywhere around the globe within 18 
to 72 hours. But The New York Times reported on March 20 that the 82nd 
Airborne can no longer meet this standard--a standard it has long held 
with pride.

I believe the supplemental that we have before us today is the 
solution to the Iraq problem. It provides a vehicle for Congress to 
express its sense on Iraq and to require the President to take 
concrete, measurable steps forward. It sets clear deadlines and 
requires vigorous regional diplomacy. It sends a message to an 
administration marked by arrogance and declares to the Iraqi Government 
that their time has come.

Zalmay Khalilzad, the outgoing U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, said as much 
Monday, March 26, in his farewell news conference.

Mr. Khalilzad was direct: The Iraqi leadership must understand, he 
said, that time is running out.

Finally, most importantly, this legislation begins the process of 
bringing our troops home.

We have a choice today. We can vote for a clear-headed Iraq policy or 
do nothing. We can exercise our constitutional oversight duties or we 
can be a rubberstamp for a failed Iraq policy.

I urge my colleagues to choose the first path. To choose the other is 
to abdicate our responsibility.

(At the request of Mr. Lott, the following statement was ordered to 
be printed in the Record.)
