---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `ff9a0ef627c0ef761df4399f89a31c87`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 13 March 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, it is interesting to listen 
to my good friends about the tax cuts that they believe will generate 
happiness in America. I want to remind my friends that the last 8 years 
have been governed by a Republican administration that has had as the 
definition of their viability in this country that they are the big tax 
cutters. And they're right. If you're making a million dollars or 
you're Warren Buffet, you're celebrating and dancing in the streets. 
That's the tax cuts that my friend is talking about. But if you're 
hardworking, middle class Americans that have looked toward the dream 
that Americans have offered, those who built cars with their hands or 
drive trucks, teachers and nurses, the very people who made America 
great, the kind of salt of the Earth that a Thomas Edison came from or 
a George Washington Carver, then you're not dancing in the street. In 
fact, you're trying to pick the pieces up and walk through the street.

Because if you look at what this administration has generated, $1.47 
in 2001, now the average price per gallon $3.13, maybe going to $4, 
because right now the price per barrel of oil is $110 dollars a barrel. 
Not only hurting those hardworking Americans, but even in Texas, some 
of the refineries that hire blue collar workers can barely make it 
because they can't make a recovery when they're paying $110 a barrel 
for gas or for oil. They don't answer that question.

The Progressive budget is a budget that addresses the heartburn of 
America. What it says to his children and their grandchildren is that 
we believe in a domestic agenda that gets you out of the pits of 
depression and economic recession. We believe in helping children and 
parents work by improving and expanding early child care and increasing 
Head Start. If you've got a 1962 car, 1977, 1999, barely you can make 
it, trying to get to work and pay


child care. We get them out of the doldrums of the recession.

We understand that there are people who are now evicted who were 
homeowners. We give out 200,000 housing vouchers so that those in my 
district alone, 25,000 people on the waiting list for section 8 and 
other housing resources, not because they can't work, because there are 
no facilities for them and because the market is out of control. This 
is what the Progressive budget does.

And then it takes to the least of those, those children in the foster 
care system that circle around in the system. Who knows who they turn 
out to be. Maybe it's the unfortunate young men that found themselves 
on the streets of North Carolina to take the life of a coed.

There are tragedies out there, and this budget understands that 
investing in America and these workers will make a difference. That's 
why this budget supports an increase in the EITC to increase work 
incentives and reduce poverty. And it brings the troops home. That's 
where the money is going. And it doesn't stifle competition. It 
promotes the space program. It applauds science and math for young 
people to aspire to space, but it gives those whose pocket has a hole 
in it, it gives them opportunity.



It is a bill, a budget, that stamps out poverty, that recognizes that 
it is important to not ignore those who you can ignore because they're 
not in front of you.

I applaud Warren Buffett for his ingenuity and his greatness in terms 
of his economic prowess. But I also applaud Mrs. Jones who gets up 
every morning at 3 a.m. trying to get to work. This is what she's 
facing.

The domestic budget by the Progressive Caucus should be supported.

I rise today in support of the budget substitute offered by the 
Congressional Progressive Caucus. I support this budget proposal 
because it represents the mainstream values of our great nation, 
providing crucial boosts in domestic spending by eliminating 
expenditure on outdated and obsolete military technologies.














second economic stimulus


This budget includes funding for a second economic stimulus package, 
designed to infuse $119.9 billion into our struggling economy. While I 
was very pleased to see the passage earlier this year of an economic 
stimulus package injecting $145.9 billion into the economy in 2008, I 
continue to be concerned about a number of important provisions that 
were omitted from the package. The ''Economic Stimulus #2'' package 
included in the Progressive Caucus budget includes more effective 
stimulus tools to meet the outstanding needs of the American people.

The Progressive Caucus budget extends Federal spending for 
unemployment insurance and food stamp benefits, and it increases 
Federal spending on Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) 
Medicaid payments to states. In addition, this budget recognizes the 
crisis posed by rising home foreclosure rates, and it provides home 
foreclosure relief and housing assistance. The Economic Stimulus #2 
package also includes the creation of jobs repairing the nation's 
schools, transportation infrastructure, and public housing.














 anti-poverty platform


In addition to the inclusion of the second economic stimulus package, 
this alternative budget is also unique because it includes a focused 
and concerted anti-poverty platform. The Progressive Caucus's ''Anti-
Poverty and Opportunity Initiative'' is committed to cutting the 
poverty rate in America in half over the next ten years, and we will 
begin to do so under this budget. This alternative budget invests 
$73.05 billion in FY09 and increases to $129.3 billion in FY 18 for a 
sustained, coordinated public-private sector strategy.














 poverty and the people


This morning Tavis Smiley shared with the Tom Joyner Morning Show, 
his thoughts and the American people's thoughts, on what is really 
going on in America. He shared how we have easily gotten side-tracked 
with nonessential staff and consultants to the Clinton and Obama 
campaigns and to the exploits of Governor Spitzer; all the while 
forgetting the issues of importance to the people.

Eradicating poverty is something the Progressive Caucus is addressing 
with its funding of anti-poverty legislation.














children and the budget


As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus and the Progressive 
Caucus, I am proud to support this budget alternative because it 
contains provisions designed to help our children succeed.

This budget improves and expands early child care and it increases 
Head Start funding. It will help parents and families by making the 
Child Tax Credit fully refundable and expanding the EITC for larger 
families. It also fully funds Community Development Block Grants and 
distributing grants to families with disabled members and as such 
promises to lift every child out of deep poverty. Furthermore, this 
budget provides for the improvement of Child Support Distribution as 
well as helping abused and neglected children by improving the Foster 
Care system.

Specifically the Progressive budget:

Iraq--projects complete U.S. military redeployment out of Iraq before 
the end of FY09--savings of at least $135 billion and replicated in 
subsequent years.

Target waste, fraud, and abuse, starting with Pentagon savings--
projects enactment of the Common Sense Budget Act, which would save at 
least $60 billion/year on largely obsolete Cold War-era weapons systems 
plus tens of billions more in waste, fraud, and abuse in DOD spending 
identified by the nonpartisan Government Accounting Office, GAO--
savings of at least $687 billion over ten years;

Repeal of Bush tax cuts for the top 1 percent of taxpayers--due to 
expire in 2010 regardless and beyond--savings of at least $222 billion;

Crackdown on corporate welfare--increased revenue of at least $18-50 
billion/year throughout the next decade from the elimination of some of 
the many corporate tax loopholes throughout the tax code, including but 
not limited to special tax breaks for the oil and gas industry and 
other extraction industries;

SMART Security Alternative to Preemption Doctrine--shifts some 
spending and increases other non-military spending to enhance homeland 
security and fight the root causes of terrorism--21st century diplomacy 
and meeting basic human needs (e.g. HIV/AIDS/TB/Malaria, universal 
basic education for all);

Global Warming and Energy Independence--funding for immediate, cost-
effective steps to redress global warming and the rapid acceleration of 
renewable energy development and commercialization;

Education for All--fully fund the ESEA and IDEA and improve Teacher 
Corps and job training;

Medicare for All--affordable, accessible, quality health care for all 
Americans, starting with fully funding of the SCHIP program to ensure 
that every American child eligible is covered for basic health 
insurance;

Guaranteed Veterans' Health Care--ensure whatever federal funding is 
needed to provide health care (including mental health care) for All 
America's veterans (including but not limited to veterans of the Iraq 
and Afghanistan military operations;

Fairness for Middle-Class--increase funding to protect fundamental 
worker rights, enforce fair credit and lending practices, and promote 
livable wages and safe workplaces;

Renew the Social Contract and 21st Century Safety Net--substantially 
increase funding for decent affordable housing, anti-hunger programs, 
and more quality child care for low-income and impoverished Americans 
(including Hurricane Katrina victims); and

Rebuild America's Communities--increase funding for Community 
Development Block Grants, Hurricane Katrina relief and reconstruction, 
community policing, and priority clean-up of leaking underground 
storage tanks that threaten the drinking water of nearly half of all 
Americans--a down payment on the implementation of other urgently 
needed environmental justice programs.












 Pentagon and Defense Spending


The Progressive Caucus Budget will be the only budget substitute 
offered in this debate that will actually cut even one penny from the 
Pentagon budget below the full amount that President Bush requested for 
Fiscal Year 2009--a 7.4 percent increase boost over last year (not 
counting Iraq and Afghanistan operations).














unified security budget


If Congress fully funds President Bush's military budget request of 
$707 billion (including Iraq operations more accurately at $170 billion 
and Afghanistan operations) for next fiscal year, our Nation will spend 
more on our armed forces next year than at any time since World War II. 
As Bush administration officials defend their latest defense spending 
request before congressional committees, they and their supporters are 
also arguing for a substantial increase above this amount in future 
years, even as they disingenuously project spending on the current 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan to go down.

A consistent theme of these presentations is that military spending 
currently represents a relatively low percentage of our national Gross 
Domestic Product. We should spend more, according to this argument, 
because we can. The fallacy of this argument is readily apparent as we 
fall deeper into debt.



The Bush Administration's national security doctrine of pre-emptive 
warfare, drawn up before the current wars were launched, prescribes an 
expansive, global role for the U.S. military, one that even current 
levels of spending and manpower don't come close to covering. After 
five years of failed tests, it's time to ask: Does the Bush doctrine of 
preemptive warfare and its costs make sense? What we must ask ourselves 
is does it make us safer and more secure?

No Member of this Congress can claim credibly to be fiscally 
responsible and not tackle head-on the soaring, unsustainable financial 
costs of the Iraq debacle. Accordingly, we hope virtually all of our 
Republican colleagues and most Blue Dog Democrats will stop paying for 
this foreign policy disaster with a credit card that seemingly has no 
limits.


















Savings


The Progressive Caucus Budget is the most transparent and accurate, 
when it comes to scoring the fiscal impact of on-going U.S. military 
operations in Iraq. We can save at least $135 billion if we end the 
U.S. military occupation of Iraq by the end of FY09.

The Progressive budget will save at least $135 billion over the 
subsequent nine fiscal years if we change the Bush policy, end the U.S. 
military occupation of Iraq, don't establish permanent military bases 
in Iraq, and bring virtually all U.S. troops and military contractors 
no later than September 30, 2009.

Let me state that we already approved $70 billion of the $170 billion 
in President Bush's supplementary request for FY08. The remainder to be 
voted upon in April 2008 or soon thereafter should be strictly fenced, 
so that it can only be used for the safe and orderly redeployment of 
U.S. troops and military contractors.




Cutting Outdated and Unneeded Weapons Systems ($60 Billion/Year)


The Defense Department is wrought with waste, fraud, and abuse as it 
continues to spend in excess of $60 billion a year on holdover Cold War 
era weapons systems.

It's time that we bring some common sense back to the budget process 
and see to it that the basic human needs of all Americans come before 
the needs of the military industrial complex. The Progressive Caucus 
budget targets weapons programs that are either outdated or poorly 
conceived from the very beginning for elimination. Despite what a 
handful of giant defense contractors would have us believe, this 
inexcusable waste actually makes us less safe.


 Combating Global HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria ($5.412 billion)


It is also in our national security interest for America to do more 
to meet the world's growing humanitarian crises. Let me cite just one 
example from our Progressive Caucus Budget.

Over the last five years the United States has achieved significant 
progress in fighting the global HIV/AIDS pandemic. Direct funding 
provided to developing countries heavily impacted by HIV/AIDS through 
the Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief has supported treatment for over 
1.45 million people with life saving anti-retroviral medications.

Additionally, U.S. contributions to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis, and Malaria have supported AIDS treatment for another 1.4 
million people, while also providing treatment for tuberculosis to over 
3.3 million people, and distributing 46 million insecticide treated bed 
nets to protect against malaria.

In line with pending legislation in the House and Senate to 
reauthorize the Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, and to continue U.S. 
involvement with the Global Fund, this increase in funding will fully 
fund our efforts to combat the global HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and 
malaria pandemics for the next five years.

This increase in funding will help reach the goal of preventing 12 
million new HIV infections; treating at least 3 million people living 
with HIV/AIDS--including 450,000 children; providing care for 12 
million individuals affected by HIV/AIDS--including 5 million orphans 
and vulnerable children in communities affected by HIV/AIDS; and 
training and retaining at least 140,000 new health care professionals 
for HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care.

This overall level of funding will fundamentally help our programs 
achieve sustainability as we increase program linkages and strengthen 
country ownership of these important initiatives.









Investing in clean renewable energy sources


If we want a more peaceful, secure world, then America must act with 
a sense of urgency to end our growing dependency upon imported oil and 
bring on line the full range of renewable energy technologies. We need 
a national commitment to accelerate the development and 
commercialization of renewable energy sources on the scale of the 
Manhattan Project during World War II or the moon shot of the 1960s. 
That is what we provide in the Progressive Caucus Budget.

It calls for spending $30 billion/year for the next decade to create 
3 million new, clean energy jobs to free America from foreign oil 
dependence. We want to reinvest in the competitiveness of American 
industry, rebuild our cities, create good jobs for working families, 
and ensure good stewardship of both our national economy and the 
environment we share with the rest of the world.















Infrastructure needs


Our Nation faces a crumbling transportation infrastructure that is 
being asked to handle ever-increasing loads. Between 1955 and 2005, the 
U.S. population grew by 130 million to 295 million. Over the next 50 
years it is expected to grow by 140 million to 435 million. Over the 
next 30 years, 88 percent of that growth will occur in the south and 
west. By 2030, the population of people over 65 will have grown from 35 
million to 70 million. More than 70 percent of the Nation's population 
growth and 80 percent of its economic growth are expected to take place 
in metropolitan areas. At the same time, rural States will face the 
enormous cost of preserving the network of roads they have built over 
the past 80 years. Congestion on our Nation's highways gets worse by 
the year as funding fails to keep pace.

The Progressive Caucus Budget reverses this trend with additional 
transportation funding over a ten-year period to strengthen our 
infrastructure and provide millions of new construction jobs. The 
Federal Highway Trust Fund is facing shortfalls that need to be met and 
this Budget addresses those needs by funding the gap between what we 
need to maintain the current system versus the degradation that is 
projected over the life of this Budget.








 Transportation Stimulus ($18 billion in FY09)


Every billion dollars spent on infrastructure creates 42,000 new 
jobs. States have identified 3,000 projects (see below) that could be 
up and running in 30-90 days for a total cost of $18 billion dollars. 
In a time when the economy is in trouble due to the over-inflated price 
of housing and the sub-prime mortgage market, the people in most need 
of jobs are construction workers. Funding transportation projects puts 
these people to work, in good paying jobs, which serve an overall 
benefit to the economy.

As a woman, a mother, a Member of Congress, and the Progressive 
Caucus, I am proud of the initiatives taken by the Progressive Caucus 
and morally compelled to support this budget.