---
---

# None
## `ff9d2dab0226d838c08f930a3285f40a`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. I know Ms. Wasserman Schultz will be returning 
soon, but while we have two high level members of the House 
Appropriations Committee on the floor at the same time, since you share 
with me how important the Appropriations Committee is, we need to talk 
about what's going to happen next week, because I think it's important 
that the Members understand that we are carrying out a great mission 
here.

On Tuesday, I know the House will meet at 10:30 for morning business, 
and we will consider suspension bills, what have you, but we are going 
to have on the floor next week H.R. 1227, which is the Gulf Coast 
Hurricane Housing Recovery Act. That is going to resolve many of the 
issues that gulf coast States and States in the future will face, and 
will allow us, allow the Federal Government to work in an appropriate 
way versus an inappropriate way of not being prepared for the needs of 
the American people.

Then on Wednesday we are going to deal with U.S. troop readiness and 
accountability act, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq 
Accountability Act. Mr. Ryan, you and I were talking about this 
yesterday, and you were marking it up, or you have marked it up in the 
Appropriations Committee.

I think it's important that we share with the Members, as they break 
to go home back to their districts, that the real story within this 
bill is that it has accountability, that it is protecting the troops in 
a way that the Department of Defense has said that they should be 
protected, using their own rules and regulations for readiness.

Now, what does that mean? That is to assure, Mr. Ryan, as you 
mentioned yesterday, that they have what they need when they go into 
theater, that it is already there before they get there. They have 
things that are simple like Kevlar vests, up-armored vehicles, to make 
sure that they have appropriate downtime before they are put back into 
the theater. These are Department of Defense regulations. These are not 
regulations that we came up with here in Congress, this is Department 
of Defense regulations. So we took those regulations and put it into 
this legislation.

Looking at holding the Iraqi government to the benchmarks that the 
President spoke about, when he spoke of his escalation on plan, it's 
holding the President and also the Iraqi government accountable for 
benchmarks as it relates to continued funding. Also, I mentioned the 
strategy of redeployment of U.S. troops by 2008. I think that is very 
important.

Yesterday I read some poll numbers, Mr. Ryan, that the American 
people are far ahead of the Bush administration on this issue. Guess 
what, we are helping the American people make sure their message makes 
it into law, makes it into this great emergency supplemental that has 
teeth in it and that has benchmarks for accountability and fiscal 
responsibility.

Also, when we look at refocusing military efforts on Afghanistan and 
fighting terrorism, it's in the bill. What is also in the bill is 
expanding funding for veterans health care and hospitals. Our track 
record is clean on this, $3.6 billion went into veterans health care 
prior to the Walter Reed story breaking, prior to this emergency 
supplemental, and the continuing resolution that we passed almost a 
month ago.

If we can talk a little bit about this legislation, the legislation 
is coming up next week, but talk about the significance, not only of 
housing for individuals who are in gulf coast areas, but also the U.S. 
Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. You all 
just had a great discussion on it today.

Can you share it with the Members so they know exactly what they are 
voting on next week? You know, in the 30-Something Working Group, we 
hate to see Members that don't fully understand what they are voting 
on, because when they go back home and a veteran walks up to him and 
says, Congressman, Congresswoman, why didn't you vote for additional 
funding for veterans health care, or when they go to a military base, a 
Reserve unit, National Guard or Active duty, and they say, well, 
Congressman, Congresswoman, why are you putting me back into the 
theater and I just left the theater 120 days ago? That is against 
Department of Defense regulations.