# None
## `ffa1357ad845afb60ac3b533629682d9`
`Mr. HATCH â€” 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, a little over a year ago, I stood before 
the Senate and recited the words of Thomas Paine--who in his essay 
titled ''Chaos''--spoke about commitment and sacrifice to a noble cause 
when it appeared that all hope was lost. His words still resonate 
today:




 These are the times that try men's souls. The summer 


 soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink 


 from the service of his country; but he that stands it now 


 deserves the love and thanks of man and woman.


Paine wrote those words when it seemed the American Revolution was 
lost. However, their effect was to rally what remained of the 
Continental Army and ensure the success of Washington's raids on 
Trenton and Princeton.

When I recited Paine's words, our Nation faced a dilemma. Despite the 
great heroism and noble sacrifice of our servicemembers, large portions 
of Iraq were under the control of al-Qaida. The mainstream media had 
concluded that, at best, our forces were locked in a stalemate. Many 
advocated that the only recourse was to bring the troops home and allow 
Iraq to fall in the abyss of an implosion.



For some, including the senior Senator from Arizona and me, that was 
never an option. The knowledge, experience and, hopefully, wisdom that 
I have accumulated over the years in this august body allowed me to 
make only one conclusion: If we are not successful in this war the 
result will be catastrophic for our Nation, the Western world, and the 
Middle East. This enemy--and despite what some in the media would lead 
us to believe, our main adversary in Iraq is al-Qaida--will pursue us 
home. Imagine the horrors that will follow if al-Qaida, with 
reinvigorated resources provided by Iraq's oil wealth, were to defeat 
us in Iraq.

However, one of the great historical truths of our Nation is that in 
our most dire hours, our military has continually provided us with 
leaders of great resolve and strategic brilliance. General David 
Petraeus amply fits that mold.

The new strategy that General Petraeus proposed--in which he has so 
ably been assisted by Ambassador Crocker--is based on the classical 
counterinsurgency tenet of providing security to the population of a 
nation under attack.

Why is this critical? By providing security to the Iraqi people, that 
Nation's citizens will develop a vested interest in the creation of 
institutions that will ensure their security for the future. Simply 
put, only in a secure environment can the majority of Iraqis earn a 
living, put food on the table, and provide a better life for their 
families.

What once was theory is now becoming reality. The Iraqi people are 
seeing considerable results from General Petraeus's strategy and their 
actions and plans for the future increasingly reflect this new reality.

How do we know this? Since the beginning of 2007, well over 100,000 
individuals have joined the Iraqi Army and security forces. This means 
that a total of 540,000 Iraqis now serve in that Nation's security 
forces. This includes the 91,641 individuals, who in little over a 
year, have joined the Sons of Iraq, the coalition of citizens that are 
tasked with providing security to their local communities. One should 
remember that 80 percent of the Sons of Iraq are Sunni Muslims. In 
addition, it should be noted that al-Qaida receives most of its support 
from the Sunni. Frankly, this alone is a major triumph.

The Iraqi people are also providing us intelligence. One of the 
methods by which we find weapons and explosive caches is through tips 
from the local population. In 2006, Coalition forces found and cleared 
2,660 such weapons caches. In 2007, after the Petraeus strategy was 
implemented, that number increased to 6,963. What is even more 
impressive is that though we have just entered the fourth month of this 
year, Coalition forces have already seized more weapons caches than in 
all of 2006. Clearly, this increase in seizures would not be possible 
without greater support from the Iraqi population.

In the area of ethno-sectarian violence, we have seen a dramatic 
reduction in deaths. When our new strategy was first implemented, there 
were more than 2,000 ethno-sectarian deaths a month in Iraq and over 
1,500 in Baghdad alone. Today, there are fewer than 250 ethno-sectarian 
deaths a month in all of Iraq.

All of these events have occurred during the period of enhanced 
security brought about by General Petraeus's strategy. For example, 
shortly after the implementation of this strategy, there were greater 
then 1,400 weekly security incidents in Iraq. Today that number has 
dropped to less than half.

In addition, the number of high profile attacks, which include car 
bombs, suicide car bombs and suicide vests--the preferred means of 
murder by al-Qaida--has also decreased by more than half from March 
2007 to the present day.

Enhanced security has strengthened the foundations of political 
institutions and economic ventures. This is evidenced by a poll 
conducted by the Center for International Private Enterprise which was 
summarized by Ambassador Crocker in his testimony. That poll, which was 
conducted last month, concluded that 78 percent of Iraq's business 
owners ''expect the Iraqi economy to grow significantly in the next 2 
years.''

Equally as impressive is the International Monetary Fund estimate 
that Iraq's gross domestic product will grow by 7 percent in real terms 
this year--7 percent. That rate of growth will only be matched by some 
Asian tiger economies and it is a level that I wish that the United 
States could enjoy.

This economic growth and strengthening of political institutions is 
also evidenced by the fact that the United States will no longer fund 
major infrastructure projects. Ambassador Crocker reports the reason 
for this fundamental shift is that Iraq's economy is now earning 
sufficient funds for the Iraqi Government to independently build their 
own infrastructure.

This does not mean that we should view this conflict through rose-
colored glasses. As evidenced by the events in Basra last week, there 
remain many challenges ahead. The fact is that the Iraqi operations in 
Basra were not properly planned. However, as General Petraeus said: ''. 
. . in the wake of recent operations, there were units and leaders 
found wanting in some cases . . . Nonetheless, the performance of many 
[Iraqi] units was solid, especially once they got their footing and 
gained a degree of confidence, and certain Iraqi elements proved quite 
capable . . .''

In addition, it should be noted that in previous years no one would 
have dreamed that the Iraqi Government would have launched such an 
operation. Remember, the Prime Minister gave an order to the security 
forces. Those orders were executed. In Basra, the results were mixed. 
Some units did well; some did not. However, the fact that the 
Government thought they could execute this major operation 
independently is a positive development. As General Petraeus testified 
''operations in Basra highlight improvements in the ability of the 
Iraqi Security Forces to deploy substantial number of units, supplies 
and replacements on very short notice; they certainty could not have 
deployed a division's worth of Army and Police units a year ago.''

Further progress is also being made by Iraq's political institutions. 
When our new strategy was first being implemented, there seemed to be 
an inextricable stalemate in Iraq's parliament. During my trip to Iraq 
in May 2007, Senator Smith and I spoke to senior members of the Iraqi 
Parliament and strongly urged them to pass legislation vital to the 
reconstruction and the establishment of effective political 
institutions. As with any democratic political process, it has been 
slow going. However, the Iraqi Parliament has recently passed important 
laws. These include a new pension law, de-Ba'athification reform, and a 
new Provincial Powers Law, that sets elections for this fall and 
defines the structure of power between the Iraqi Federal Government and 
its provinces. These are great strides forward, and all Americans 
should recognize our accomplishments in Iraq.

I believe that Ambassador Crocker summed up the situation best when 
he said yesterday:




 Al-Qaida is in retreat in Iraq, but it is not yet defeated. 


 Al-Qaida's leaders are looking for every opportunity they can 


 to hang on. Osama bin Ladin has called Iraq ''the perfect 


 base,'' and it reminds us that a fundamental aim of al-Qaida 


 is to establish itself in the Arab world. It almost succeeded 


 in Iraq; we cannot allow it a second chance . . .



 . . . the world ultimately will judge us far more on the 


 basis of what will happen than what has happened. In the end, 


 how we leave and what we leave behind will be more important 


 than how we came. Our current course is hard, but it is 


 working. Progress is real, although still fragile. We need to 


 stay with it.


Mr. President, the road has been long and hard. However, as I said 1 
year ago, the words of Thomas Paine remind us that great causes require 
sacrifice, that in any conflict there will be dark days, but if our 
cause is just and our will is strong, there is nothing that we cannot 
accomplish as a people. I suggest very strongly that our cause is just 
and our will is stronger than some in this body believe it to be.

Mr. President, our forces have accomplished much. It is now our 
responsibility to sustain them until they achieve the victory which 
they deserve, and for which they are fighting.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.