# None
## `ffa695a55f900807dc382ecd142b86e4`
`Mr. BUYER — 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. BUYER. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor and bid farewell to an 
exceptional leader, patriot, and friend, James M. Lariviere, as he 
retires from civilian Federal service. A Marine Corps Reserve colonel 
selected for promotion to brigadier general, he is returning to active 
duty to continue his distinguished military career.

Throughout his life Jim Lariviere has been a devoted servant to his 
country and fellow citizens. A native of Rochester, New York, he earned 
a bachelor's degree in history from the Citadel in 1979. During my 
freshman year at the Citadel, Jim personally ensured that I was 
''squared away'' when I navigated the trials and tribulations of ''knob 
year'' in the Corps of Cadets. While at the Citadel, Jim distinguished 
himself with scholarship having worn academic gold stars, and with 
military bearing as a member of the junior sword drill, Summerall 
Guards, and as Regimental Adjutant for the Corps of Cadets.

Upon graduation, Jim was commissioned as an officer with the United 
States Marine Corps. During his time on active duty, Jim Lariviere 
commanded a force reconnaissance platoon in Beirut, Lebanon, and served 
as a company executive officer, company commander, assistant operations 
officer, and White House Social Aide. He is a graduate of the 
Amphibious Reconnaissance School, U.S. Army Ranger School and earned 
the privilege to wear the Navy Marine Corps Parachutist Insignia. In 
every assignment he excelled in his service, being recognized by 
numerous awards and medals, including: The Bronze Star, Meritorious 
Service Medal (2), Navy Marine Corps Commendation Medal (4), Joint 
Service Achievement Medal, Joint Meritorious Unit Citation, Afghanistan 
Campaign Medal (with 2 campaign stars), Global War on Terrorism Medal. 
Jim also holds a masters degree in national security affairs from 
Georgetown University and he is a graduate of the Air War College.

Jim left active duty, transitioned to the Marine Corps Reserve and 
joined my congressional staff in 1993, bringing his military values and 
experience to the United States House of Representatives. Jim 
successfully balanced his Reserve duties with a career on Capitol Hill. 
Initially, he worked on my office staff as the military legislative 
assistant handling national security, veterans', and technology issues. 
He also acted as the lead staff member for the House National Guard and 
Reserve Components Caucus. In February 1999, he joined the professional 
staff of the House Armed Services Committee as a member of the policy 
group where he had responsibility for a wide variety of defense policy 
issues including national security and military strategy, force 
structure policy, on-going military operations, peacekeeping, and 
military readiness policy.

In 2003, Jim Lariviere joined the firm of Holland & Knight LLP as a 
Senior National Security Policy Advisor, working directly with the late 
Congresswoman Tillie Fowler. He also served as a consultant to the 
Defense Policy Board. In May 2005, he returned to Capitol Hill as the 
Republican Staff Director of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
during the 109th Congress, when I was chairman. While staff director, 
he was ordered to active duty in Afghanistan from June through December 
2006. While in Afghanistan as part of operation Enduring Freedom, he 
served as Deputy Director for Training Operations, Plans and 
Education at the Combined Security Assistance Command. During the same 
period, he also served as mentor to the G-3 of the Afghan National 
Army. For his military service in Afghanistan he was awarded the Bronze 
Star.


During his tenure as staff director, he led and supervised the 
committee and subcommittee staffs in their legislative and oversight 
work, which included the enactment of the Servicemembers' Group Life 
Insurance Enhancement Act of 2005, which became Public Law 109-80, and 
the Veterans' Benefits, Health Care and Information Technology Act of 
2006, which became Public Law 109-461.

When I became the Ranking Republican Member in 2007, Jim Lariviere 
continued as the Republican staff director. He was instrumental in the 
minority staff development of a Republican alternative budget proposal 
for Fiscal Year 2008 and 2009 and in a successful amendment to the 
Wounded Warrior Act, which was incorporated into the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, Public Law 110-181. His 
tireless efforts resulted in significant improvements in the care and 
treatment of injured or ill servicemembers returning from Operation 
Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom.

Jim has spent his life dedicated to serving this Nation. As he takes 
yet another step in continuing that service, as a warrior, a leader, 
and a patriot in every facet, I am confident that he will do so with 
strong devotion to the country and to men and women who defend our 
freedom and way of life.

I am honored to call this family man my friend. He has earned the 
respect and admiration of all who know him and he embodies the 
principles and character that epitomizes what is expected of a model 
Marine Corps officer, or any officer.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me today in recognizing 
the remarkable career of Jim Lariviere and to thank him for his 
leadership and honorable service to our country. I say to him, ''Bravo 
Zulu'' and wish him, his wife, Virginia, and their four children, much 
success and happiness during the next chapters of their lives. ''Hit it 
smack''
