---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `ffb34dfdce663b326d41a9f445f2641e`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, we are talking about some very serious


issues that impact the life and safety of our soldiers whom we have 
called on to serve us in Iraq. It is a matter the American people care 
about, and we owe them the most careful study.

To my distinguished colleague, the assistant Democratic majority 
leader, Senator Durbin, I would say one thing about a change in 
strategy. We voted to change our strategy. We voted 80 to 14, 53 days 
ago, to change our strategy, to send General Petraeus and fund the 
surge that is going on in Iraq. That is our strategy. We just voted on 
this. In fact, a few weeks ago, the last part of that surge arrived in 
Iraq. What, are we going to change it again, this month?

Later this week, we will vote on the Levin amendment to decide 
whether to change, again, our strategy in Iraq. Changing strategy by 
Congress during a time of war, particularly making changes that are 
opposed by the military and our Commander in Chief, is not a small 
matter. Our decisions deal with war and how to achieve peace and will 
affect the safety and the mission of those magnificent men and women 
who now serve us in Iraq.

For the busy American, the casual observer, and even the world 
citizen, it may be this is an appropriate time to vote on this subject 
again. Certainly, the frustration in our country and inside all of us 
is high and we are deeply concerned.

I would note that I think all of us agree that quite a number of 
errors have taken place in our military actions in Iraq. I suggest 
perhaps the most serious error was our belief that we could, too 
readily, alter this Government in Iraq and create a new government that 
would be effective virtually overnight.

That is contrary to good, conservative principles. These people in 
Iraq have never had a heritage of a functioning government other than 
brutality, and it is very difficult to do. I think we are finding out 
it is very difficult to do. It can't be done as quickly as many of us 
would like to have thought when this activity was begun some years ago.

But with regard to this change in policy, I suggest the Members in 
the Senate know better. We know it is not appropriate to be changing 
our policy again. We know that any nation, especially one that aspires 
to be a great nation, must deal with these life-and-death matters with 
maturity and sound judgment. We know if we were to lift our eyes off 
politics and emotion, that our country, striving to do good, is facing 
a most difficult challenge in Iraq. Things have not gone well. Our 
terrorist enemies are watching our politics with great interest. 
Sometimes they play us like a Stradivarius. And so our allies are 
watching. So, indeed, is the whole world. The terrorists are quite 
sophisticated and strive to produce a continuous series of bloody 
headlines to affect American public opinion. Our judgment, our 
character, our principles, our very souls are being tested. But this 
Nation has faced tough times before.

Don't we remember the history of Washington at Valley Forge or the 
burning of our own Capitol by the British in 1812 or the brutal bloody 
Civil War or the massive deaths in World War I or the attack on Pearl 
Harbor or the Italian campaign, the ferocious battles for Iwo Jima, 
Okinawa, D-Day, the Battle of the Bulge or the Chosin Reservoir in the 
Korean war? These are major moments in American history, and blunders 
in strategy and tactics and timing occurred in almost every one of 
them. Many errors occurred. Failures that cost lives unnecessarily, 
placed our Nation at greater risk than was necessary. But that is the 
nature of war.

Enemies lose a great deal of sleep trying to figure out what the 
weaknesses are of their adversary and trying to exploit that, and 
frequently they are successful, to a point. But certainly it is 
appropriate, even in times of war, that the Congress question and 
challenge the Commander in Chief and our military generals. But that 
challenge must be, no matter how vigorous, responsible, and honest. Our 
domestic politics are quite partisan, true; and, frankly, I have been a 
little disappointed at the nature of the debate I have heard this 
afternoon. Republican this and Republican that and President Bush this 
and President Bush that--it sounds more like politics than a sincere 
effort to reach the proper decision about what our future course should 
be.


Still, no one should deny that a congressional response to a war, a 
war that over three-quarters of us voted to authorize, should rise 
above political gain. With some exceptions, this Congress I think has 
done so.

Truly, there is great concern in our land about the war in Iraq. It 
is real and justified. I readily admit my concern. I will admit I am 
not able to state with certainty today what our long-term course should 
ultimately be or how this will all play out in the end. Therefore, I do 
not contest the sincerity of those who will disagree with my 
conclusions.

I can only state my views honestly and forthrightly because that is 
what I have been elected to do, and that is what our soldiers who 
depend on us for support expect of me.

First, I strongly believe this Nation cannot flop around, changing 
its policy from month to month. That would be immature. It would result 
in bad execution of this military effort, this war. It would demoralize 
our soldiers who are walking the streets of Iraq this very moment 
because we sent them there.

Additionally, this Congress funded their military operations. We 
funded them. Our duly elected President, our Commander in Chief, has 
directed the policy with the advice of his commanders in the field. 
That is what it is. That is what is going on. That is what is 
happening.

Now we had a great debate in April and May over whether to fund the 
so called ''surge'' that President Bush and the Defense Department 
requested. This is the surge that has, a few weeks ago, reached its 
full strength. After the full debate, Congress could have said no to 
the President on his request for the surge and not provided those 
funds.

Fourteen Senators did vote no. But we said yes by an overwhelming 
vote of 80 to 14. On May 24, less than 2 months ago, we authorized the 
surge and, more importantly, we passed an emergency supplemental to 
fund this surge. Nothing required us in Congress to do that. We 
concluded it was the right thing to do, considering the serious 
alternatives that existed.

Because of the concerns we all had at that time, we required an 
interim report on July 15th, which has been received on time. We also 
called for a complete report from General Petraeus, in September, on 
the status of his efforts and our soldiers' work.

Of course, we had voted to confirm General Petraeus by a vote of 99 
to 0 to command this operation. There was no mistake then concerning 
the seriousness of the situation we were in. As General Petraeus 
described the challenge:




 It is difficult but not impossible.


We were in no way misled about the difficulties we faced, nor were we 
unaware of the most serious ramifications of a failure in Iraq.

Thus, on May 24, this Congress, with an overwhelming majority, said: 
Let's go with the surge. But we said: General Petraeus, we will expect 
you to give us a full, complete, and honest report in September as to 
how it is going with the good and the bad, and set out specific 
benchmarks we want you to address. That he promised to, do, and off he 
went.

Yet even before the personnel who were to be deployed to effect this 
surge had even arrived in Iraq, the Democratic majority leader, Senator 
Reid, who voted for the surge, to my dismay, declared it a failure. 
While the troops were still arriving, the Democratic leader, the 
majority leader of the Senate, declared the surge a failure.

To me it is unthinkable that this Congress would pull the plug on 
this operation before it has had a fair chance to work, and we have had 
a fair chance to evaluate its effectiveness. We voted for it 53 days 
ago. What must the world community think, friend and adversary alike? 
Does not such immaturity of action reflect poorly on us as a nation? 
Nothing has occurred since that time of decision in May to justify 
concluding that the situation in Iraq has significantly changed for the 
worse? In fact, there are indications that some improvements have 
occurred. We know that General Petraeus, last year, after two tours in 
Iraq, 2 years over there, came home and last year wrote the Department 
of


Defense doctrine on how to defeat an insurgency. His expertise was much 
noted when we confirmed him to go take charge of the soldiers, sailors, 
airmen, and marines who would effectuate this effort. Nowhere in his 
manual did he ever suggest an insurgency could be defeated in 50 days, 
or 90 days, or 120 days.

Victory, we must admit--if you read his manual--takes time, 
diligence, determination, and smart application of politics, weaponry, 
and forces. His manual sets out methods for how to achieve victory 
against an insurgency, the methods for victory.

There is simply no basis at this point to conclude that our soldiers, 
sailors, airmen, and marines have failed in executing this policy. In 
fact, they are moving out with vigor. After seeing a reduction of 
sectarian violence in Baghdad by two-thirds. This is the sectarian 
violence, the murders that were occurring between hit squads, Shia and 
Sunni, as a result of the violence kicked off by the attack by al-Qaida 
on the Samara mosque, and their determined, effective policy to create 
violence between the Shia and the Sunni. That is what al-Qaida set out 
to do, and they succeeded last year.

We have seen that drop by two-thirds, although bombings still occur, 
and the bombings are suicidal, many times with large bombs that kill 
large numbers of civilians in shopping areas. But today some of our 
troops are moving out of Baghdad into the toughest areas outside 
Baghdad, such as the Dyala Province, and making, it appears, progress 
there.

As our soldiers confront enemy strongholds, some of which have never 
before been cleared, they demonstrate professionalism and courage that 
reflect the finest qualities that have ever been demonstrated by 
American soldiers.

Nor, let me add, has anything occurred that suggests this new 
strategy is flawed and will not succeed and should be abandoned 53 days 
since we agreed to see it forward.

So with respect, I conclude it would be irresponsible in the extreme 
to have this bunch of politicians sitting in air-conditioned offices in 
Washington reverse a strategy we approved 53 days ago. But that is 
exactly what the Levin-Reed amendment would do.

I have tremendous respect for Senator Levin. He is a superb chairman 
of the Armed Services Committee. But I do not agree with him on this 
point. I do not believe this is right.

If you were a soldier or a marine and you had just moved into a tough 
terrorist neighborhood in Iraq, following the directions given to you 
by your President and your Congress, and you saw your comrades take 
casualties, maybe killed in the course of executing that policy, all in 
the belief that somebody up there back in Washington had finally 
settled on a workable plan for victory, and then before your work is 
half done, in less than 2 months, you learn the folks up there had now 
changed their mind again, how would you feel? Wouldn't you think we do 
not take our mission of our soldiers and what they are doing seriously?

We owe our military better than that. We owe them the same courage 
and character they are displaying right now. On the birthday of our 
Army, I was at a celebration and met a young soldier. I thanked him for 
his service and began to explain my concern about the long deployments 
we were asking them to undertake. He cut in, saying, ''Senator, we just 
want to win.'' Before all that is just, this Congress must not fail 
such men.

The Levin amendment is pernicious in more ways than I am able to 
discuss at this time. It must not pass. We know a full review of our 
policies will occur in September. We agreed on that in May. That is 
critically important and valuable. I support such a review. I am open 
minded about what we will decide to do in September.

I hope and pray we will be able to reduce the number of our soldiers 
and begin a mature, effective way to reduce that deployment in Iraq, 
but we will decide our next step then. To execute a precipitous 
withdrawal from Iraq now, regardless of the conditions on the 
battlefield, and regardless of the advice of our commanders in the 
field, is unthinkable. It would be a stain on this Senate for years to 
come.

Has anybody bothered to express an interest in what General Petraeus 
has to say about it? Things don't always go well. My favorite statue in 
Washington is one that conveys the most historical import, I think, the 
one of General Grant right down here in front of the Capitol. He sits 
astride his horse, his campaign hat pulled down, his coat 
wrapped around, his head tilted slightly forward, a perfect picture of 
determination in the face of great difficulty.


It is said 600,000 died in that war on both sides. Over 440,000 
Americans died in World War II. This Nation has seen dark days before, 
days darker than these. So let's keep our poise and our wits about us. 
Let's give General Petraeus and his courageous military personnel a 
chance to effect the strategy we agreed on and asked him to effect.

There are other important issues I will suggest to my colleagues as 
we discuss the Levin amendment. I will note a few briefly.

The surge report. The language in our affirmation of the surge in May 
called for a report that had benchmarks for improvements in Iraq. Those 
benchmarks have been much commented upon, but these benchmarks for 
improvement did not declare that all or any of the benchmarks must be 
met by September or even by July 15, the time of our interim report. 
They were to be objective markers by which we could judge progress and 
lack of it, and they were surely not exhaustive of every issue and 
challenge we faced in Iraq.

The fact that progress has been made in only half of those benchmark 
areas does not mean, of course, we should now up and declare the new 
operation a failure and that we should now cut and run. How could 
anyone conclude this July 15 report that shows limited early progress 
in only some areas means General Petraeus has failed? All the extra 
soldiers arrived there only 3 weeks ago.

It is also important to note that the benchmarks seemed to focus on 
the performance we wish to see by the central government, and they have 
not been meeting their responsibilities, in my view. I had my sixth 
visit there this spring. I was able to share that view and that 
frustration of the American people with the top leaders in Iraq, 
including Prime Minister Maliki. We believe they need to do more in the 
central government.

But, for example, the benchmarks provided no credit at all for the 
stunning progress that has occurred in the al-Anbar region, progress 
that has resulted at the ground level where Sunni tribal leaders have 
partnered with the marines to rout whole groups of al-Qaida operatives.

Similar progress, though smaller, it appears, seems to be occurring 
in other areas at the local level. So the benchmarks do not consider 
those events and whether progress is being made, but they are important 
as we evaluate what our situation truly is. We must remember that while 
sectarian violence continues, and it has occurred in large part as a 
direct result of al-Qaida's strategy to foment it, safety and security 
in the capital city is important in furthering political 
reconciliation.

I wish I could agree with the idea of my able colleague Senator Levin 
when he declared that peace and security in Iraq can only come as a 
result of a political settlement. Thus, he would suggest if a 
parliament cannot settle all of the difficult political issues on the 
timetable we set, we must leave, because this is the only thing that 
will make them agree on policy, our threatening to leave, and our 
actual leaving, it appears, because his amendment would require an 
actual departure from much of Iraq.

Well, I wish it were so easy. But, in truth, our commanders believe, 
our State Department believes, and I believe, it is far more 
complicated than that. Of course, a political settlement and 
reconciliations are critical to any long-term stability. But will not a 
reduction of violence and a more secure Baghdad be an event that will 
make political progress more possible? That is what the generals are 
telling us, that when the capital city is in a constant state of 
violence and disorder, how can we expect the Parliament to be able to 
function and to provide a peaceful settlement of the disputes that need 
to be settled long term for a healthier Iraq?

I think we have a new strategy. We voted on it 53 days ago. We agreed 
to


fund it. That is what the Congress does, we either put up the money or 
we do not put up the money. By a vote of 80 to 14 we put up the money 
to fund this strategy. We asked for a report in September, and now we 
have an amendment that has garnered quite a lot of political headlines 
and provided a lot of forums, a lot of ability to come forward on the 
floor of the Senate to attack President Bush and Republicans, but it is 
not a very responsible thing.

The responsible thing is for us to do what we said 53 days ago--to 
demand a full, complete, and honest report by General Petraeus in 
September, and at that point to evaluate the situation in Iraq and 
establish a strategy and a policy going forward from there that serves 
our national interest.

I yield the floor.