---
---

# IRAQ RESOLUTION
## `ffc1debfe45b53cb4cce0f23038a9f99`
`Ms. SNOWE â€” 12 February 2007`

---


Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, first, I want to commend the senior Senator 
from Virginia, Senator Warner, for his unparalleled leadership, because 
it is borne of a tremendous credibility based on his military and 
professional experience on these vital issues, and that precise 
credibility lends the kind of expertise to the Senate, to the Congress, 
and to our Nation that is so vital at this point in time. But I think 
in the final analysis, it is something we have to honor as we consider 
the most consequential issue of our time.

I am very pleased the Senator has offered an amendment that reflects 
his resolution that was modified and that was supported by both sides 
of the political aisle. I am pleased to join my colleague from 
Nebraska, Senator Hagel, and my colleague from Maine, Senator Collins, 
because this is a critical issue. It is one of the issues that is the 
most significant of our time.

As we begin this week, it is regrettable we don't have the Iraq 
debate before the floor of the Senate in the form of considering a 
resolution. Tomorrow, the House of Representatives is going to proceed. 
They are going to proceed to debate a resolution in opposition to the 
troop surge proposed by the President of the United States. They will 
have that debate this week. The question is when and if the Senate is 
going to have that debate on a specific resolution, on specific issues, 
with specific votes.

Unfortunately, what we are witnessing today is the shrinking role of 
the Senate when it comes to the war in Iraq, a war that has been 
ongoing for 4 years. I am dismayed because I don't see any evidence. I 
don't see any evidence of working on a bipartisan basis to coalesce 
around an issue and on a position where it has been demonstrated there 
is a majority of support in the Senate to have negotiations, to have 
consultation, to work it out. I don't see any evidence of that. Have we 
come to the point in the Senate where we haven't been able to determine 
procedurally how to move forward on a nonbinding resolution? It is hard 
to believe the Senate would be marginalized on that point.

Now I am speaking from experience. This is my 13th year in the 
Senate--my 13th year. I served in the House of Representatives for 16 
years. I served for more than 20 years--I think about 24 years--on 
Foreign Affairs, Foreign Relations, Armed Services, and currently the 
Intelligence Committee. So I speak from experience. You have to work 
across the political aisle. And there wasn't a time when we didn't 
discuss these issues: Lebanon, Persian Gulf, Panama before the Persian 
Gulf. We had Bosnia and Kosovo. We were able to work it out. The fact 
is I well recall a statement I had drafted back in 2000 illustrating 
examples of bipartisanship here on the floor of the Senate, one of 
which I said about the Senator from Virginia, Senator Warner, in 
working across the aisle with the Senator from West Virginia, Mr. Byrd, 
on the issue of Kosovo.

That has been the hallmark of the Senate. Does it mean that we 
disagree on a major issue of our time? No. There are differences of 
opinion, but what is the Senate afraid of? What are we afraid of? To 
debate and to vote on various positions, whether it is on our position 
on the troop surge, whether it is on the position of cutting out 
funding, the troop gaps, a new authorization? Some of those issues and 
positions I would disagree with. But does that mean to say the Senate 
cannot withstand the conflicting views of various Members of the 
Senate? It is not unheard of, that both sides of the political aisle 
will have differing views.


I came to this debate a few weeks ago when we were getting prepared 
ostensibly to work on this issue, to debate, which is consistent with 
the traditions and principles of this institution, which has been its 
hallmark. That is why it has been considered the greatest deliberative 
body in the world. Unfortunately, it is not living up to that 
expectation or characterization, regrettably. But I joined with the 
Senator from Nebraska in his effort across the aisle with the chairman 
of the Foreign Relations Committee and the chairman of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee because I wanted to send a message that here and 
now, there will be those of us on this side of the aisle who disagree 
with the President on the troop surge. So I wanted to send that 
message. I read the resolution. I know there are some on this side of 
the aisle who didn't accept that language. But I thought it was 
important to do that. I cosponsored that resolution.

We had many meetings, as the Senator from Nebraska would note, with 
Chairman Biden and Chairman Levin, to work through this issue: how we 
could work with the Senator from Virginia, because we knew we had a 
majority on both sides of the aisle that could work it out, who were 
opposed to the troop surge. So how is it we couldn't get from here to 
there? And we met in good faith to negotiate, working out even the 
procedures. We agreed: Let's have an open, unfettered, unrestricted 
debate, which is consistent with this institution that is predicated on 
our Founding Fathers' vision of an institution based on accommodation 
and consensus. You have to get 60 votes. So we said: Let's work it out, 
and the good Senator from Virginia worked it out. He incorporated our 
concerns in his modified resolution so we could enjoin our efforts.

Now, it is not surprising on this side of the aisle that there are 
strong views that support the President, that don't believe we should 
have a vote. But does that mean to say we can't move forward and the 
House of Representatives can? So the House of Representatives is going 
to be debating this issue this week, and the Senate is going to be 
dithering. While our troops are on the front lines, the Senate is 
sitting on the sidelines.

I am amazed we have reached this point in the Senate. We should be 
embracing this moment. We are the voice of the American people. 
Constitutional democracy is predicated on majority rule, but a respect 
for minority rights. I don't see any ongoing negotiations and 
discussions. Maybe I missed something. I don't see that happening 
across the political aisle. If historically we took the position: You 
missed your chance, that you missed your chance with a vote--2 weeks 
ago--you mean that is it in the Senate? How did we pass major pieces of 
legislation, major


initiatives without saying: That is it; there is no room for 
discussion, there is no room for negotiation, there is no room for 
compromise.

Oftentimes I am challenged on this side because I work so much across 
the political aisle. Senator Hagel did the same thing, as did Senator 
Warner. We worked across the political aisle to make it work. But I do 
not see that mutual trust to say: Let's see how we can move forward on 
the most profound issue of our time. It is unimaginable that we cannot 
develop a strategy for deliberating on this most consequential issue.

We are expecting to adjourn next week for a recess. I thought to 
myself: Why? Why, so we will get back to Iraq before we know it? That 
is what we have heard: Just wait. The troop surge isn't going to wait. 
The Iraqi war doesn't take a recess. Our men and women aren't taking a 
recess. Why can't we debate now and vote on these issues? Are we saying 
we are simply not capable of talking?

That is what the Senate is all about. It is based on consensus. It is 
based on compromise. It is based on conciliation. It is based on the 
fact that you have to develop cooperation in order to get anything 
done. It is not unusual. If historically we took the position: You 
missed your chance because there are disparate views, so that there 
would be no opportunity to further discuss or negotiate--we missed our 
chance? Are we talking about scoring political points? Are we talking 
about what is the best policy for this country with respect to Iraq at 
a time when men and women are on the front lines; at a time when the 
President is proposing a troop surge which I and others joined with 
Senator Warner because we oppose that; at a time in which we are almost 
a year to the anniversary of the bombing of the Golden Mosque in 
Samarra?

In fact, Senator Warner and I paid a visit just days after that, the 
first congressional delegation, and we saw all the manifestations of 
what exists today in the most pronounced way. And we are saying we 
can't get it done in the Senate. Is this about scoring political 
points? I read every day: Who is winning politically? Because that is 
what it is about. It is about winning politically on a policy with 
respect to Iraq where we have been mired for 4 years with a strategy 
that hasn't been working. And we are saying, who is winning 
politically? Isn't it about Iraq? Isn't it about our men and women? 
Isn't it about what is in the best interests for this country?


We have given so much. Our men and women have sacrificed 
immeasurably. As Senator Collins indicated, we lost another from Maine 
this weekend, SGT Eric Ross, 26. These men and women have put 
themselves on the frontlines. Yet we sit and hesitate to talk about 
what is in their best interests. Some say it is a nonbinding resolution 
that has no impact. I daresay, if it doesn't have any impact, then why 
is it we are not voting? What has a greater resonance in America? Is it 
silence or is it taking action on the most consequential issue of our 
time? I can only imagine, if we had an overwhelming bipartisan vote on 
Senator Warner's resolution--that is bipartisan, I might add--because 
those Members strove to make it bipartisan in the Senate, many strive 
to do that, so we can send a message that would be profound, that would 
resonate. To have a strong vote in the Senate or silence, which would 
have greater resonance? I think we know the answer to this question.

I am concerned we are taking a political U-turn away from the message 
in the last election. I was in that last election. I heard loudly and 
clearly. I don't blame the people of Maine or across this country for 
their deep-seated frustration. They are right. There was too much 
partisanship and too much polarization.

What we need now is leadership. We need leadership for this country. 
They are thirsting for a strong leadership, an honorable leadership 
that leads us to a common goal. No one expected unanimity in the Senate 
but we would give integrity to this process to allow it to work and not 
cynically say who is winning and who is losing today politically, so we 
have 30-second ads that will be run by outside groups or we are seeing 
them now. We are not shedding the political past. We have made a 
political U-turn. We are returning to it.

This isn't about party labels. This isn't whether it is good for 
Republicans or good for Democrats. It is what is good for America. It 
is not about red States and blue States. It is about the red, white, 
and blue.

I am dismayed we are the second month into a new Congress, after the 
American people resoundingly repudiated the politics of the past, the 
partisanship and polarization, creating a poisonous environment. They 
repudiated all of that. Here we are, back to the same old approach. 
Instead of giving confidence to the American people that we will speak, 
we are their voice, we give voice to their fears and to their hopes, to 
their concerns that they rightfully have because we are not making the 
kind of progress, we are moving in a different direction on Iraq that 
obviously has been exemplified by the continuing and ongoing sectarian 
warfare.

Fifteen months ago when Senator Warner came to the Senate and offered 
a resolution, 2006 was going to be the year of transition to Iraqi 
sovereignty. It was 2006 when we would turn over all the security to 
the Iraqi security forces. But 2006 has come and gone. We haven't made 
any measurable progress.

As I said, when I was there a year ago, we saw the manifestations of 
the sectarian warfare, a vacuum had been created politically because no 
new central government had been created. That took months. We allowed 
that vacuum to continue. We got a new government. Yet they have been 
hesitant--indeed, they have been an impediment--to quelling the 
sectarian violence and confronting and demobilizing the militias.

I heard a year ago about the graft and corruption that was running 
rampant in the ministries, as we saw recently with the Deputy Minister 
of Health funneling money to support the sectarian violence and the 
militias. We have seen and we have known all of that.

So Senator Warner got that resolution passed. We united around him. 
In June of 2006, we passed a resolution as well that called for a 
regional conference so we would begin the diplomatic offensive the Iraq 
Study Group spoke to. But that has been ignored as well. I know the 
administration has had a number of strategies in Iraq. They had the 
national strategy for victory that was also 15 months old, that 
represented all the issues Senator Warner has embraced in his 
resolution, to which they only paid lip service, regrettably.

So we are here today. We want to give voice to the concerns of the 
American people who want us to move in a different direction, not to 
commit additional troops at a time in which we have a government in 
Iraq that hasn't demonstrated a measurable commitment to controlling 
the sectarian violence and make the political changes within its 
Government that demonstrate a good-faith effort--whether it is the oil 
revenue-sharing distribution money, the provincial elections and, as I 
said, the demobilization of the militias; in fact, impeding our efforts 
to capture people who were responsible for some of the genocide and the 
warfare. But here we are.

I hope we can find a way. What could be of higher priority than to be 
able to debate and to vote on our respective positions, to give a vote 
on the Warner resolution that is so important that a majority of 
Senators support? I know we can build the threshold for the 60. It is 
imperative we do it. It is inexcusable, frankly, that on the process 
for debating, we cannot reach an agreement. We are failing the American 
people on a colossal scale. We are held up by arcane procedural 
measures that could be worked out, if only we reached across the 
political aisle.