---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `fffc0a81f0dce420d6fad94d53ac98fc`
`Mr. NADLER of New York â€” 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. NADLER of New York. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this 
resolution. I am not convinced that the United States and its allies 
can end the 35-year civil war in Afghanistan, nor is that our 
responsibility. We should not use our troops to prop up a corrupt 
government. It is simply not justifiable to sacrifice more lives and 
more money on this war. We must rethink our policy. If we do not, we 
are doomed to failure and further loss of American lives.

In late 2001, we undertook a justified military action in Afghanistan 
in response to the attacks of 9/11, and with moral clarity and singular 
focus we destroyed the al Qaeda camps, drove the Taliban from power, 
and pursued the perpetrators of mass terrorism. I supported that 
action. Today, however, our presence in Afghanistan has become 
counterproductive. We are bogged down amidst a longstanding civil war 
between feuding Afghans of differing tribes, classes, and regions whose 
goals have little to do with our own. Moreover, our very presence in 
Afghanistan has fueled the rising insurgency and emboldened those who 
oppose foreign intervention or occupation of any kind, who see us as 
foreign invaders. In seeking security and stability in Afghanistan, we 
have supported corrupt leaders with interests out of sync with the 
interests of ordinary Afghans. By backing the Afghan government, we 
have further distanced ourselves from the Afghan people and empowered 
the insurgency.

If our mission in Afghanistan is indeed to prevent the safe harbor of 
terrorists within a weak or hospitable nation, that mission is largely 
accomplished, since we are told there are now fewer than a hundred al 
Qaeda in Afghanistan. In reality, terrorist plots can be hatched 
anywhere, in any nation, including our own. In fact, much of the 
planning for the 9/11 attacks took place in Western Europe.

This does not mean we should stop pursuing terrorists. On the 
contrary. We must continue the multipronged effort to disrupt, 
dismantle, and destroy their ability to harm the United States. We must 
continue to track and block terrorist financing across the globe, 
increase intelligence activities focused on terrorists, increase 
diplomacy to rally our allies to our cause against terrorism, and, if 
necessary, use our Armed Forces to attack terrorist targets wherever 
they may be--a function quite distinct from using the military to 
secure a nation so that it can be rebuilt. Rebuilding Afghanistan is 
beyond both our capability and beyond our mandate to prevent terrorists 
from attacking the United States. I believe that a short and definitive 
timetable for withdrawing our troops is the only way to minimize 
further loss of life and to refocus our efforts more directly at the 
terrorists themselves.

I do have one reservation, that the resolution before us seems to 
leave no room for a military role in Afghanistan under any 
circumstances. I believe we must reserve the right to use our Armed 
Forces to attack terrorist targets wherever they may be, and that would 
include terrorist training camps in Afghanistan, if they were 
reestablished there. But those camps are not there now, and our troops 
should not be there either. Mr. Kucinich's resolution points us in the 
right direction, a direction far better than the direction in which we 
are now headed. Accordingly, I urge approval of the resolution.