---
---

# None
## `fffe7f949141c9f1a5ebe1d490787af7`
`Ms. BERKLEY — 21 June 2007`

---


Ms. BERKLEY. I thank the Chair.

Mr. Chairman, I rise today on behalf of Mr. Weiner, Mr. Crowley, Mr. 
Ferguson and myself to offer an important amendment to cut off funding 
to the Saudi Arabian regime.

Mr. Chairman, there are many reasons that we need not be sending 
foreign aid to Saudi Arabia. First, Saudi Arabia does not need our 
money. They are one of the wealthiest countries in the world, with a 
GDP of over $286 billion a year. With poor countries begging us for 
help, why are we giving money to this oil-rich kingdom? Is not 60, 70, 
$80 a barrel enough?

Second, Saudi Arabia exports and funds terrorists and terrorism. Need 
I remind anyone in this body that 15 of the 9/11 hijackers were Saudi? 
But the story goes on. By 2005, over 2,500 Saudi youths had entered 
Iraq to wage jihad against the Americans. That's waging jihad against 
us. By last month, 3,000 Saudis had been killed or captured in Iraq. 
Why are all these Saudis fighting in Iraq? Because their government is 
financing and teaching terrorism.

Israeli officials believe that over half of Hamas' budget comes from 
Saudi Arabia. Just this week, two indictments were served against Saudi 
charities that are accused of funding Hamas. Their textbooks still 
teach Saudi children that Jews are apes, Christians are pigs, and that 
every other religion other than Islam is false. Their newspapers print 
anti-Semitic cartoons depicting the Jews as thiefs, and, most insulting 
of all, as Nazis. Already this year our State Department has counted 14 
human rights abuses in Saudi Arabia, including beatings, arbitrary 
arrests, violations of religious freedom, and limitation on workers 
rights.

The Saudis are not our allies. They are not our friends. King 
Abdullah called our invasion of Iraq an illegal foreign occupation. 
Those are not the words of a friend.

Mr. Chairman, we cannot trust them and we should not fund them. That 
is why every year more and more Members of this body vote to cut off 
funding to the terrorist regime. And yet, despite all this, the funding 
for Saudi Arabia has increased. Let me repeat that. It has increased 
each year because of an obscure loophole in the Foreign Assistance Act, 
up to $1.5 million in 2006. Well, this year we're closing that 
loophole. Our amendment will ensure that funding to Saudi Arabia is cut 
off once and for all.

Enough is enough. Let's come to our senses and end this senseless 
promotion of terrorism. I urge support for the Weiner-Crowley-Ferguson-
Berkley amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.